-- ADVENTURE (V6.4.2) --
Somewhere nearby is Colossal Cave, where others have found fortunes
in treasure and gold, though it is rumored that some who enter are
never seen again.  Magic is said to work in the cave.  I will be your
eyes and hands.  Direct me with natural English commands; I don't
understand all of the English language, but I do a pretty good job.
(Should you get stuck, type "HELP" or "?" for some general hints.)
Good Luck!
- - - -
You are standing at the end of a road before a small brick building.
Around you is a forest.  A small stream flows out of the building and
down a gully to the south.  The road runs up a small hill to the west.
> ord
I don't understand the word "ord".
> plugh
Nothing happens when you say that here, but it's a genuine magic word.
You're at end of road again.
> drop rod
I see no ROD here.
> rub enter
I'm afraid I don't understand.
> grftm ab
I don't understand the word "ab".
> tube
I see no TUBE here.
> dge goth
I don't understand the word "dge".
> take rod
I see no ROD here.
> oom
I don't understand the word "oom".
> take all
That verb requires an object.
> take bottle
I see no BOTTLE here.
> cliff ng
I see no CLIFF here.
> broke
I don't know how to apply that word here.
You're at end of road again.
> alace
I don't understand the word "alace".
> strea lower
I don't understand the word "lower".
> door etal
I see no DOOR here.
> plugh
Nothing happens when you say that here, but it's a genuine magic word.
You're at end of road again.
> in
You are inside a building, a well house for a large spring.
Off to the north side is a small pantry.
There are some keys on the ground here.
Taped to the wall is a faded poster.
There is a handwritten note here.
> fill
That verb requires an object.
> troll
I see no TROLL here.
> s
You're at end of road again.
> r
I don't understand the word "r".
> help
I know of places, actions, and things.  Much of my vocabulary
describes places and is used to move you there.  To move, try words
like forest, building, downstream, enter, east, west, north, south,
up, or down.  I also know about a number of objects hidden within
the cave which can usually be manipulated with various action words.
- - -
It's important to remember that cave passages turn a lot, and
that leaving a room to the north does not guarantee entering the
next from the south, although it usually works out that way.
You'd best make yourself a map as you go along.
- - -
A word about my understanding of English -- I will try very hard to
do whatever you say, but here are a few suggested idioms:
- - -
To take everything at a location, say "take all" or "take everything".
Similarly, to drop everything you're carrying say "drop all".
- - -
You can string a list of commands or objects together by using the
word "and" or by separating them with commas.  Thus, you can say
"Go in the building and take the keys and the note."
- - -
The program remembers the last object you use and lets you use "it"
(or "them" for plural nouns) in a later reference.  Thus, you can
say "take note and read it."
- - -
To reprint the detailed description of where you are, say "look"
(or "L").  You can also "look in" or "look at" appropriate objects.
- - -
To find out what you're carrying, use "take inventory" (or "I").
- - -
If you want to end your adventure, say "quit".
- - -
To see how well you're doing, say "score".  You get points by
finding treasures and adding them to your collection.  Each
treasure is associated with a point value.  You get 60% of the
point value simply by finding the treasure; for the rest you must
bring it back and deposit it safely in the building.  To determine
how much an individual treasure is worth (assuming you get it back),
you can use the "appraise" command, as in "appraise poster".
- - -
Although most of the objects in the cave are of negligible weight,
there are a few (such as a 90-pound gold nugget) that are decidedly
heavy.  In case you need it, your own weight in this game is figured
at 130 pounds, and you can carry (being an adventurer in reasonably
good shape) up to 100 pounds of additional material.  To find out
how much some object weighs, you may say "weigh <object>".
- - -
Although the dwarves and random passages are part of the original
Adventure world, they quickly become annoying.  This version of
Adventure includes a recognizable good-luck charm near the building.
If you are wearing it, the dwarves leave you alone, and the random
passages become deterministic.
- - -
It is unlikely that you can solve Adventure in one sitting.  Typing
"save" brings up a dialog that allows you to download your game
state to a local file.  You can then restore your game by typing
"restore" and selecting the file you want to restore.
- - -
If you think you've found all the treasures, just keep exploring
for a while.  If nothing interesting happens, you haven't found
them all yet.  If something interesting does happen, it means
you're getting a bonus and have an opportunity to garner many
more points in the endgame.
- - -
ADVENTURE was originally developed by Willie Crowther; more recent
additions have been made by Don Woods, David Long, Mark Edwards,
Mark Sylvester, Eric Roberts, and Kristin Powers.
- - -
> dge
I don't understand the word "dge".
> light lamp
I see no LAMP here.
> pices rock
I don't understand the word "pices".
> re off
I don't understand the word "re".
> build drink
You're inside building.
There are some keys on the ground here.
Taped to the wall is a faded poster.
There is a handwritten note here.
You have taken a drink from the clear water.  The water tastes
strongly of minerals, but is not unpleasant.  It is extremely cold.
> plugh
It is now pitch dark.  If you proceed you will likely fall into a pit.
> bedqu
I don't know how to apply that word here.
You fell into a pit and broke every bone in your body!
Oh dear, you seem to have gotten yourself killed.  I might be able to
help you out, but I've never really done this before.  Do you want me
to try to reincarnate you?
no
Ok
You scored 65 out of a possible 665 using 12 turns.
You are obviously a rank amateur.  Better luck next time.
To achieve the next higher rating, you need 11 more points.
[Hit return to exit]
12
