  Adventure 2.2 Hints                                            9/3/87 
  
  The object of the game is to get all treasures safely into the
  house. Not everything you find is a treasure but may be needed
  to get some of the treasures. Dwarfs, the pirate and time are 
  working against you. You must have your lamp on while in the
  cave. This causes your batteries to wear out. You can get more
  batteries from the the vending machine but this costs you points
  by losing the coins. You can save a copy of the game on disc each 
  time you go some place new in case you get yourself killed. The 
  only way to fight the dwarfs in to throw there own axe at them. 
  Keep doing that until they are all dead. The only way to get rid
  of the pirate is to get his treasure chest. Don't try jumping 
  anywhere, you'll just get killed. Every time you get a handful
  of treasures get them back to the house quickly or the pirate 
  may take them. Don't forget to take the magazine to Witt's end. 
  
  Once you get all the treasures, you only have a certain amount of 
  time to get the last ones back to the house. You must do this before
  your lamp runs out and it closing time. You can't make many mistakes
  or you won't make it. You can go to the plover room and wait for your 
  lamp to run out before closing and have some light available. You do
  have to keep moving to get to the final puzzle. Turn off your lamp
  every time you go back to the house to save your batteries. 
  Be sure to wave the rod over the fissure before entering the
  expanded cave since you can't bring it back out. These instructions 
  are brief and assume you have a map in from of you. If you don't
  have one, make one. Remember, you may end up in a different place 
  going the same direction from the same spot. Sometimes it depends 
  on what you are carrying. The final puzzle occurs after you have
  found all the treasures. The only way to the main office is by
  solving the final puzzle. I'll only give you a hint. Do something 
  with the rod(s) and try something that had no effect early. If you
  try hard, you can get a perfect score and become a Grandmaster. 
  
  To get past snake and dragon  
  
  1. Get bird cage and bird 
  2. You can't carry rod while getting the bird 
  3. Go down to hall of mountain king 
  4. Drop bird and gage 
  5. Go south for jewelry 
  6. Go west for coins
  7. Go north for silver
  8. Go southwest and west
  9. Kill dragon with bare hands
  10. Get rug and return
  
  
  To get through maze to pirates chest
  
  1. The pirate must have taken your treasure first 
  2. Go to west end of the hall of mists
  3. Go south, east, south, south and south 
  4. Go north, north, east, east and northwest
  5. Get chest and other treasures
  6. Go southeast, north and down to bird chamber 
1 
  
  To get batteries from vending machine 
  
  1. Go to west of hall of the mountain king
  2. Get coins for machine
  3. Go west to east end of long hall 
  4. Go to west end of the long hall
  5. Go south, up, up and south 
  6. Drop coins for batteries 
  7. Get batteries
  8. Go north, down, down and down
  10. Return from long hall 
  
  
  To get Emerald, Pyramid and Vase
  
  1. Go to Y2 and enter Plover
  2. Drop everything and get emerald
  3. Go west and drop emerald 
  4. Go east and get everything 
  5. Go northeast and get pyramid 
  6. Go south and enter Plover
  7. Drop pyramid for later 
  8. Go to oriental room and get vase 
  9. Go north and west
  10. Get emerald 
  11. Go northwest and south
  12. Go southeast and east 
  13. Get pillow and return 
  14. Drop pillow before vase 
  
  
  To get into the giant room
  
  1. Get water bottle 
  2. Go to west end of two pit room 
  3. Go down and water plant
  4. Go up, west, up, north 
  5. Go north to reservoir
  6. Get more water and return
  7. Water plant again
  8. Go up, east and down 
  9. Get oil and go up, west and down 
  10. Climb plant and go west 
  11. Get golden eggs 
  12. Go north and oil door 
  13. Go north and get trident
  14. Go west and down to exit
1 
  
  To get the pearl, perfume and bones 
  
  1. Get trident first going through giant room 
  2. Enter clam room and open it
  3. Go down twice and get pearl
  4. Go up 3 times and then east
  5. Love the princess and go south 
  6. Get perfume
  7. Go southeast and get bones 
  8. Go back since you can't carry more 
  9. Southwest takes you to Witt's end
  
  
  To get past the troll without losing a treasure:
  
  1. Get food, keys and bones 
  2. Get golden eggs from giant room
  3. Go to Chasm from large low room
  4. Toss eggs to troll 
  5. Go northeast and enter Barren
  6. Enter room and feed bear 
  7. Unlock chain from bear 
  8. Get bear and chain 
  9. Enter View and go east 
  10. Drop bones for caterpiller
  11. Get marijuana 
  12. Go south, south and east
  13. Get rare spices 
  14. Enter Fork and go west
  15. Drop bear before crossing 
  16. Get bear again and toss to troll
  17. Cross chasm and go to giant room
  18. Enter the Fee Fie, Foe, Foo sequence
  19. Get golden eggs back and return 
  
  
  To get into the expanded cave do the following: 
  
  1. Get rod and champagne
  2. Go to gold nugget room 
  3. Go east, south, south, down
  4. Drop rod and get skull from magic caven
  5. Go Northwest to Charon's landing 
  6. See Charon sail in and go back 
  7. Go east, north, north
  8. Open champagne and get garter
  9. Go west back to gold nugget room 
  10. You no longer have the rod or champagne 
  
