



       Q U E S T   D O C U M E N T A T I O N  --  QUEST VERSION 1


  I.   THE GAME

       Quest is a multi-user game that runs on IV/90 Mod 2 computers
       under MFE.  It is set in a large cave.  Players move through
       the cave, fighting its inhabitants, as well as each other,
       while trying to win the game.  Almost all aspects of the cave,
       as well as the object of the game, are generated at random by
       the computer at the start of the game.

       Each room in the cave is connected to some of the 8 rooms
       adjacent to it.  All connections are symmetrical: if going
       north from room A puts a player in room B, going south
       from B puts him back in A.

       At the beginning of the game, all players start out at the
       same place, above ground.  There is someone (not a player)
       somewhere else above ground who knows what the quest is.

       Quest does not know about teams, so it is not possible for more than
       one player to win a game.  However, it is possible for players to
       decide upon teams before the game begins, and agree that when
       someone on a team wins, the entire team wins.  For that matter, it
       is always possible to shift alliances between teams during the
       game.

       When someone wins the game, everyone is told.  However, the game
       does not actually end until someone stops it or everyone quits.
       (See "Starting and Stopping," below.)

       The cave is populated by various characters chosen at random
       by the computer.  These include such characters as wolves,
       demons, and trolls.

       There are often many different objects in various rooms of
       the cave.  Many are somehow relevant to achieving the
       object of the game: some can help, some can hinder, some are
       only decoys.  Many of the things are weapons.  Some, including
       some weapons, are magical.  Many objects are not in plain view,
       and must be searched for.

       In Quest, time is important; that is, actions take real time.
       This is different from games such as Adventure, in which time is
       known only by the number of moves made.

       It is possible to talk to other players in the cave.  (See "Use of
       the Terminal," below.)  It is also possible to communicate in
       other ways, such as winking.

  II.  STARTING AND STOPPING QUEST

       A.   Starting Quest

       Quest requires MFE release BN03, configured for 24 x 81
       screens.  From 1 to 20 players may play; they may use any
       terminals, not just 0 through 19.  All players must start at
       the same time.  The file QLIB must be present on drive 0 when
       Quest is run.  Quest occupies 39 pages of physical RAM.

       Quest is started by the MFE command START QUEST.  After several
       seconds, Quest will ask for the number of players that will
       play.

       After Quest has been told the number of players, the players
       may sign on.  This is done by typing "Q" at the terminals.
       Quest will ask each player what his or her name is.  The
       player should type in his or her name followed by cursor return.
       Next Quest will ask whether the player is male.  The player
       should answer "YES" or "NO", followed by cursor return.  When
       this is done, the player must wait until all other players have
       answered these questions.  At that point the game begins.

       If a harder game is desired, the file QLHARD should be copied to
       file name QLIB on drive 0, instead of the supplied QLIB, before
       the game is started.  (See Files Used by Quest, below.)

       B.   Stopping Quest

       Quest may be stopped by using the MFE command ABORT QUEST.
       This must be entered at the MFE console, not as a player.
       Alternatively, Quest will stop itself when the last player
       has logged off.  Players log off by hitting the Control Cursor
       Return key, or by typing QUIT or STOP.

  III. USE OF THE TERMINAL

       The screen is divided into two parts.  The top 23 lines are
       used to display what the player sees and hears.  New
       information appears at the bottom and is scrolled up.  The
       24th line of the screen is used to type in actions and
       conversation.

       After each line has been typed, Cursor Return must be hit to
       give the line to Quest.

       A.   Actions

       To perform an action, type it in as a sentence.  For instance,
       if there is a sword on the floor, to pick it up you would type
              GET THE SWORD
       The computer understands many different actions, as well as
       synonyms for some.  So if it doesn't like your sentence, try
       paraphrasing it.

       There are a few useful actions that you may never think of.  For
       instance, it is possible to look at almost anything, including
       abstractions such as EVERYONE.  Another thing it's possible to
       look at is INVENTORY, which shows you what you're carrying.

       You can type several sentences on the same line if you want to.
       Just separate them by periods.  For example:
              WALK NORTH. GIVE SWORD TO TONY. WALK SOUTH

       In some situations, the faster you can type, the better you can
       play Quest.  So Quest has some features to save you typing time.
       One is the fact that you never have to type more than the first
       5 letters of any word.  You can type the whole word if you have
       nothing better to do, but it will be ignored.

       Another time-saving feature is the fact that sometimes if you
       omit a word Quest will fill it in using what it knows about the
       other words in the sentence.  For example:
              NORTH          is the same as      WALK NORTH
              LOOK           is the same as      LOOK AT THE AREA
              GET SWORD      is the same as      GET THE SWORD
              JOHN           is the same as      LOOK AT JOHN
       The best advice is to try omitting words and see what happens.

       There are some words that refer to the last sentence you typed.
       For example:
              NORTH. AGAIN   is the same as      NORTH. NORTH
              GET SWORD. DROP IT
                             is the same as      GET SWORD. DROP SWORD

       Finally, you can abbreviate the names of directions.  For
       example:
              N              is the same as      NORTH
              W              is the same as      WEST
       The computer will misunderstand you if you try to say
       NORTHEAST, because it will only look at the first five letters
       and see it as NORTH.  So you have to use NE, SE, SW, and NW.

       B.   Conversation

       Players in the same room can communicate with each other by
       typing their conversation.  All conversation can be heard
       by everyone in the room with the speaker.  A conversation
       sentence must begin with a quote, to tell the computer it is
       not an action.  For example:
              "LET'S GANG UP ON LEE
       The sentence does not have to end with a quote.  The computer
       merely sends this line to everyone else in the room.  It does
       not try to interpret it as an action.

       You can mix action sentences and conversation sentences on
       the same line.  For example:
              SWING SWORD AT JOHN. "HAD ENOUGH?

       C.   Special Keys

       Some of the keys on the keyboard perform useful functions.
       Here they are in order of their usefulness to you.

         Key                 Function
         ---                 -
       RETURN              Causes Quest to process the line you just
                                typed.
       Control RETURN      Logs you off Quest.  Remember that once you
                                log off you cannot get back on until a
                                new game starts.
       <-                  Moves the cursor to the previous character.
       ->                  Moves the cursor to the next character.
       MODE (ATTN)         Blanks the line and moves the cursor to
                                the left margin.
       Shifted <-          Deletes the character under the cursor.
       Shifted ->          Inserts a blank under the cursor.
       HOME                Moves the cursor to the left margin.

       D.   Typing ahead

       It possible to type ahead of Quest.  That is, while the actions
       on a line are being performed, you can type in the next line.
       When you have typed the next line, the cursor will disappear.
       Any further typing will cause the terminal to beep.  When Quest
       begins processing the last line you typed, the cursor will
       reappear.

  IV.  FILES USED BY QUEST

           Quest uses four files:
                QUEST     the game itself
                QHELP     this file
                QLIB      library of data used by the game
                QLHARD    library for harder version of game

  V.   ERROR MESSAGES

       QUEST FATAL ERROR n, CODE = x  (appears on MFE console)

            n=0 :   QLIB not found, or wrong version.
            n=10 :  Not enough physical memory.
            others: Internal QUEST error.  Try again.

       SORRY -- THE CAVE IS CLOSED NOW.  (appears on MFE console)

            QUEST will not run on weekdays from 9 AM to noon, and from
            1 PM to 5 PM.

