Type BUG to make comments, ask questions, etc.
By the way... SAVE and LOAD are now operational. To save a game in
progress type SAVE when you see the prompt (>).
Welcome to Adventure ]I[!

Do you need instructions?n

You're in a vast meadow that stretches endlessly in all directions
To the west is a tree.
> w

You're in the meadow, underneath a large oak tree.  There are small
carvings on the tree, and they seem to mean something.
I see:

Small structure in the tree
> u

You're in a treehouse, barren of furnishings except a cubicle to the south,
which is filled with shimmering green light.
I see:

Battery-powered lamp
> take lamp
lamp: Taken.
> light
Lighted.
> save
File to save it in: regress
Not available.
Create?y
The game is saved!
> drop lamp
Dropped.
> inven
You are carrying:
Nothing.
> load
File to load: regress
The game is now as it was when you saved it.

You're in a treehouse, barren of furnishings except a cubicle to the south,
which is filled with shimmering green light.
> inven
You are carrying:
Battery-powered lamp
> read carvings
I can't find any carvings here!
> help

Somewhere nearby is the land of Erehwon, a mysterious place
Filled with fantasy and magic.  It is your task to explore this
unknown region, requiring your physical skill and cunning to
be at their peak.  I will be your eyes and ears in this exped-
ition, describing your surroundings and any points of interest
that you happen to run across.  Direct me with commands of one
or two words.  To move from one place to another, try words like
NORTH, WEST, CLIMB, DOWN.  To get a list of your current possessions
use the word INVENTORY.  All words, objects, etc. may be abbriev-
iated to their first five letters; for example, type UNLOC for
UNLOCK, INVEN for INVENTORY, and so forth.

The object of the game is to collect all of the valuables and to
put them in the treehouse (you will find the treehouse soon).
Special words that do not affect the game but may help you:

BRIEF:  Prints a long description of each place you come to
        the first time, then only the name of the place there-
        after.
LONG:   Prints a long description of your location every time
        you move from place to place.
SUPER:  Stands for SUPERBRIEF; means to print only the name
        of your location when you move.
LOOK:   Gives you a long description of your location no matter
        which of the three print modes (SUPER, LONG, BRIEF)
        was_specified.

You may manipulate special objects in Erehwon, such as a lamp
you will find in the treehouse.  Manipulation words include:
TAKE, PUSH, EAT, KILL, WAVE.  (There are MANY more!)

If you are having trouble moving or using an object, try
anything that comes to mind, not just the commands listed here.
Multiple commands on a line are separated thus:  N, S, E, W, EAT TREE.

More help will be available here at a later time as the game
develops further.
> score
Your score is 4 out of a possible 1400 in 9 turns.
This qualifies you as a Beginner Adventurer.
Do you wish to stop now?n
> 
