1
You are standing on the floor of the Martian desert, just outside of your
ship.  Rippling pink dunes, littered with small rocks and gowned in a
shimmering veil of wind-blown dust, recede majestically to the horizon
in all directions.
2
You are on the rolling Martian desert.  The ground slopes precipitously
in some places, is flat in others, and everywhere is covered
by the omnipresent shards of broken rock.  A shallow fog lies
sheltered from the thin, stinging wind on the bottom of a
nearby crater.
4
You are standing on deep sand by the remains of the Viking I lander.
The machine, one of its legs weathered off, is toppled over on its
side and is partly covered with pink
windblown dust.  The land rises to the west, in which direction
rests a boulder the size of a car.
5
You are standing beside the east side of a boulder the size
of a large car.  It is red with a pink surface patina, and a hole almost
exactly four inches wide, perfectly straight and parallel to the
ground runs through it at eye level.  To the east and below
lie the remains of an old Viking lander.
6
You are at the west side of the boulder.  There is a large flashing neon
sign on this side of the rock, proclaiming,
"GREETINGS---THE SENTIENT LIFE FORMS OF MARS WELCOME YOU".
Under the sign is the word "Airlock", with a glowing arrow pointing to a metal
hatch set into the ground.
There is a four-inch wide hole boring *straight* through the rock along
an east-west path.  Peering into the hole, you see that it sights directly
towards your ship.
9
You are on the Martian desert beside a large well, obviously not of
natural origin.  The structure is three feet high, six feet wide, and
is constructed of blocks that are about one foot on a side.
The blocks have been etched by the wind and sand, but have
faintly discernible characters carved into their sides.  They are 
translucent, and appear to be made of solid diamond.
The well extends down farther than there is light to see.
11
You are on the desert, standing by the end of a broad white highway,
covered by pink dunes to the north, but bared by the relentless wind
otherwise.  The road appears to stretch unbroken to the southern
horizon.
13
You are standing on the Martian desert by the end of a broad white
highway that recedes, apparently unbroken, to the northern horizon.
To the south the road stops when it reaches a gigantic desert-colored
dome, towering five hundred feet into the pink sky above at its
highest reach.
20
You are standing on the southern edge of the Valles Marineris, by far
the largest known valley in the Solar System.  Carved ages ago by
raging cataracts of water released from the poles during Mars'
millenial Spring, the tortured bottom lies seven miles beneath you,
down a sheer cliff face.  The northern side of the trench lies one
hundred miles away, too far for you to glimpse even given the thin
Martian atmosphere and your high vantage point.
It is doubtful that you could proceed any further north.
41
You are at the top of the Martian airlock complex, with the metal hatch
a few feet above your head and a set of wide metal stairs winding down
the sides of a tubular vertical shaft beneath you.
42
You are in the middle of the airlock, standing on a set of
winding steps.  A circular shaft disappears in the distance above and
below you.  The walls are slightly luminous.
43
You are at the bottom of the airlock complex.  A curving stairway winds
up a wide tube above you, vanishing in the distance.
There is a broad metal hatch in the floor beneath you.
44
You are in a ten-foot diameter spherical bubble whose walls are made
entirely of a totally transparent substance.  Outside of the bubble
is a breathtaking sight.  You stop to take a breath.
The chamber is perched on top of a three-mile high tower overlooking
a giant lighted cavern.  The cavern is in the shape of an upper
hemisphere, and you are at the apex of the sweeping rock walls.
Miles below, the floor is taken up with a city of slender, delicate
structures shining with all the colours of the spectrum, and then some.
Fragile domes, thrusting spires, every conceivable form of architecture
is represented someplace in the city limits.  Although everything here
seems to be in perfect repair, there is nothing moving but you , anywhere
in the entire vast dome.
The tower you are on is in itself awe-inspiring.  A mile below,
two wide ramps spiral out from the sides and into the city.  Strangely, 
everything's sense of immensity is not dwarfed by your own dizzying
height, or by the huge space enclosing it all.
There is an antigrav dropshaft in the floor beside you, and a large
metal hatch in the ceiling above.
45
You are at a level midway down the central Tower.  Wide archways lead
to the Tower's east and west sides, and dropshafts are in the
floor and ceiling.
46
You are at the bottom of the central Tower, which soars needle-thin
to immense heights above you.  It is supported by impossibly thin
buttresses and slender pylons, resting in the surface of a wide, open
plaza.  Broad roads lead in the cardinal directions, and dropshafts
lead into the tower and down into the plaza.
