1
You are in a room designed to resemble a vast entry chamber.  The air
here is cold and damp.  Passages lead north, west and east.
2
You are near what seems to be the Martian equivalent of a post-card
stand.  Racks on either side contain stiff paper-backed pictures of
Mars as seen from near orbit.
3
You are in a low cylindrical room with doorways to the west, north and
east.  Over each door is a boldly printed sign in low middle
Martian reading, "Makwu".
4
You are in the hall of the old ones.  Despite the lack of furnishings,
the chamber feels lived-in.  The great life force itself seems to
poke at your mind, yet your computer registers no life signatures but
your own.  There are cavernous passages leading to the north, east and
south.
5
You are in a room which is reminiscent of a human tourist trap.  There are
things that look like souvenirs hanging on strings, more postcards, and small
imitations of other Martian artifacts.  The merchandise appears to be protected
by a security field .  The only way out is south.
6
You are in a massive looping corridor at the western end of what looks like
an office.  Passages are to the south and the west.
7
You are in the offices of Modern Martian magazine, the marvelous mag that
brings you the mostest about many things on Mars.  Behind locked cabinets
are old stacked copies of "Modern Martian".  Around one of the machines there
is a thick pile of dust, the accumulation of a long time.  A high speed laser
printing press is bolted to the floor.  There are doors to the west, north,
east and south.
8
You are in a spherical room with lighted walls.  In the centre there is a
large plant pedestal.  The only way out is back north
9
You are at the eastern end of a massive looping corridor.  There appear to be
offices to the west, and a passage leads north.  It is oddly chill here.
10
You are in an upward sloping corridor, at the bottom.  There is a door leading
south
11
You are at the top of a long down sloping corridor.  There are doors to the
west and to the north.
12
You are in a room with four massive marble pillars stretching from the floor
to the ceiling, over 1000 feet above your head.  Glowing softly in the centre
of the pillars is the orange light of a helium neon laser beam which comes up
via a pinhole in the floor.  The only passage is back east
13
You are in a very small room with a pasage leading east and down.  To the
northeast there is a glimmering rectangle with a large machine connected to it.
The machine is repeating over and over, "placa placa placa placa..."
14
You are in a small tubular passage that leads further down.  The way is still
down
15
You are at the bottom of a long tubular passage.  Here, blown off its hinges
is a large metal pressure door.  Off to the west is a dimly lit room
16
You are in the dimly lit room.  On wone wall is an immense picture window
below you is the vast arid surface of the red planet Mars.  The window is very
cold as there is no sunlight shining on it now.  Outside to the west is a
flattened landing pad for Martian spacecraft which could be handled by your ship
there is no other conclusion to be made but that you are on the Martian moon
Diemos, the moon of terror.  There is a passage east and a large airlock door
on the north wall
17
You are inside the airlock on Diemos.  There are south and west doors
18
You are out on the flat landing field by the Diemosian airlock.  The view of the
glowing southward
19
You are in a large Martian alcove, with passages north, east and down
20
You are in a great room which is not only circular, but has curving passages
which lead away to the north and south.  There are large circles painted on
the wall, much like the symbol for the ancient 20th century Olympics back on
Earth
21
You are in the middle of a great circular passage.  It leads off to the north 
and south
22
You are in the empty room.  There is nothing here.  Passages are up and south
23
You are in the room of the great ancient Martian king Mwa.  Mwa was certainly
great and the walls are lavishly decorated.  Passages are north and south
24
You are at the great junction of Mwa's corridors.  Here an east-west corridor
25
You are at Mwa's end.  A sign on the wall in old high Martian says that beyond
here is where Mwa met his dismal end.  The way is blocked to protect the
foolhardy from venturing into an area that was too much even for a king.  The
only way out is south
26
You are at the great junction of access.  Passages lead in all four directions
of the compass.  To the west there is clanking.  Over the western door is a
sign in old middle Martian which reads "be warned"
27
You are in the utility room.  The walls are lined with racks and shelves,
some occupied by mysterious tools and machinery, some empty. there are
wide passages to the east and north, and an iris door to the west.
A sign over the entrance to the northern passage, in old high Martian,
reads, "be further warned!"
28
This is the secondary robot room. you were warned!!
(there is a tunnel leading out to the south)
29
You are at Gmog's way, a close hall with plush carpeting and
red velvet wall hangings.  The main route leads north and south,
while a dark, bare stone corridor snakes east
30
This is Gmog's room.  From the looks of things this Gmog fellow
had quite some influence.  The walls are frescoed with ancient
paintings and sculpture, priceless in their antiquity.  Passages
lead north, east and west.
31
You are standing in the room of Gmog's door, with a shimmering,
insubstantial veil of blankness to the southwest. there is
nothing else in the chamber.  There are exits down and northeast.
32
You have walked through a long corridor, once protected by a now-sagging
door of twenty-foot thick door, to enter Gmog's vault.  The walls are
pitted and scored as the result of an ancient explosion, and steel
stalactites drip from the roof, fifty feet up, almost to the floor.
Wide passages lead north and south, with a low crawl to the east.
33
You have entered the glory of Gmog room.  A splendid chamber, with
lush carpeting, heavy drapes, an inlaid platinum floor
and signs proclaiming "we love you, Gmog", it is dominated by a large
marble platform surmounted by a majestic throne.  Gmog is nowhere to be 
seen.  A carved archway leads to a low corridor to the north.
34
You are in the last room.  Passages lead out in *all* directions.
35
east and north.
36
You are in a small, unlit vestibule the size of a closet.
Set deep in the northern wall of the room is a thick plate of transparent
quartz forming a large window overlooking the surface of deimos.
the cold rock face of the satellite surface, just outside.
A sign on the wall in middle high Martian reads,"zap!".  There is a
narrow tunnel in one wall leading south.
37
You are in the room of Gmogdoor.  South-west of you is the massive
glittering glowing door.  In the opposite direction is a corridor, and
there is what looks like a manhole to the service areas in the floor.
38
You are in what seems to me a Demosian chemical lab.  There are shelves
filled with odd containers of all types, and vials of stangely labeled
substances in the closets and on the desks.  Some equipment is set up
in the corner, in an experiment that looks like it was halted in mid-stream
and never resumed.  There is a corridor through some swinging doors to the
west, and another manhole leading down.
39
You have stepped over a hidden ledge into a bottomless death pit!  As
you approach the bottom, death seems immenent.
40
You have entered a sectret storage vault of the chemical lab, obviously
used for highly unusual research.  There is a passage back to the northeast,
and there is another manhole leading down.
41
You are in an absolutely fascinating passage.  Literally stunning feats of
architechture and construction must have be done to make this path.  You
could sit in wonder for hours, but it leads along to the south and northeast
42
You are in a large Diemosian nexus of corridors.  Paths lead out in every
direction the eye can see.
43
You are in a very boring room.  There is not much to do here, except go back.
44
You are in a quite unintersting corridor.  It goes off to the west; maybe there
is something of interest in that direction.
45
This room is an almost total waste of time.  Gmog knows why it is here!
Maybe it was used for storing things that they did not use too often.  It
is a dead end.
46
You are in a dull room.  It is dull, dull, dull.  There is nothing on the walls
or floors but a flat grey paint.  Go back north.
47
You are in what seems to be a pretty uneventful cavern.  It looks like nothing 
has happened here for aeons.  There is a passage northeast
48
You are in a very dull passage that leads off to the west and east.
49 
You have entered a boring cave.  It is a pretty regular, run of the mill,
"You've seen one, you've seen 'em all" type cave.  It gets too tight
to follow
50
You are in the vibrant room.  Inexplicable excitement seems to fill the very air
as you examine the surroundings.  An east-west hall goes through the room, and
a sloping corridor goes up to the north.
51
You are in a tremendously exciting hall.  Of all the halls that run through
this moon, this is by far the most exciting.  The power and force is 
overwhelming.  This east-west hall continues.
52
You are in the gravity room.  For some reason there appears to be no gravity
in this room and you are suspended in mid air.  Your initial velocity on
entry however, has enabled you to reach a handhold where you can access
some passages to the west and south
53
You are at a great Martian holy junction.  There is a small hole in the floor
with a ladder in it, and a large north-south passage runs through the room.
A great arched doorway with large shiny handles is situated to the west.
54
You are at the northern Diemosian's fork.  Your east-west passage continues,
and there is a long spiral staircase at the side that seems to go down
to the very bottom of the moon itself.
55
You are at Diemosian's bend, a sharp corner in the passageway.  Here the walls
are finely scored with thin, almost undiscernable markings.
56
You have entered wonderful passage.  The markings are a little thicker on the
walls now, and seem to be some form of majestic art.  The passage continues
57
You have come into a great, empty hall.  As you walk in it, your footsteps
make ringing sounds that reverberate throughout the hall.  The passage
continues at the other end of the hall.
58
You have reached Diemosian's fork south.  There is an upward sloping corridor
to the north, and a passage south.  A deep spiral staircase winds down on
the eastern side of the fork.
59
After stepping through a slightly glowing field in the corridor, you have
suddenly been zapped to a featureless, spherical room.  There are no passages
out that the eye can see!
60
You are at what appears to be the centre of a church complex.  There is a
passage north, and two halls on either side of the centre.  A thin spiral
staircase is at one side.
61
You are in a small room overlooking the church complex.  There are some jacks
on the wall for electronic equipment, and there is a small podium by the 
edge.  The only way out is down the staircase.
62
Before you is a rectangular block of silvery metal covered with ornate designs.
At each side are small glowing domes, emitting a dim, but strangely pleasing
hue.  You can go no further
63
You have reached a Martian hall of discorperation.  On the floor is a thick
layer of greyish powder which is easily disturbed by your movements.
The door in the wall will not open backwards, having been designed for one
way traffic only.  There is no other exit.
