;			A  M  A  Z  O  N
;
;	A game of fun, daring, suprises, and multiple players
;
;	Text File Format:
;
;Note: All defined values refer to Positive numbers
;
;Program defined functions so far include:
;
;	Define	Symbol (Value)
;
;	(Prop	(Property	Value))
;
;	Basic definitions -- what it looks like, not implementation *

;Item	WORD	(Prop
;		(Property	Value)
;		(Property	Value)
;		(Property	(Prop	(Property	Value)
;					(Property	Value)
;				)
;			)
;		(Property	Value)
;		(Property	(Value))
;		(Property	Value)
;	)
;
;
;Example:
;
; Item	'Fred'	(Prop
;
;	(Type	   Object)
;	(Control   Self)
;	(Name	   'Fred')
;	(Capacity 	(Prop
;			(MAX	500)
;			(PRICE	2500)
;			(WEIGHT	250)
;			(LOAD	5)
;			(OBJECT	(Bird Cake Axe))
;		    )
;		)
;	(Ability   (Prop
;			(STRENGTH	100)
;			(INTELLIGENCE	47)
;			(WISDOM		14)
;			(CHARISMA	59)
;			(CONSTITUTION	30)
;			(SIZE		25)
;			(AGILITY	72)
;			(DEXTERITY	66)
;			(LEVEL		4)
;			(DAMAGE		42)
;			(DAMAGETAKEN	3)
;			(EXPERIENCE	25435)
;			(LANGUAGE	(#10007004031))
;		    )
;		)
;	(Statistics (Prop
;			(PPN	(#100000200))
;			(CODE	'PHREAD')
;			(TURNS	22792)
;			(TIME	19582)
;			(DEATHS	2)
;		    )
;		)
;	)		! final Close Parens
;


Item	'HELP'	(Prop
	(Description	"This is the Game of Amazon

You are wandering somewhere in the Amazon River Valley deep in the
heart of South America.  You may find Untold treasures in the caverns
below.  But, BEWARE!!!  There are traps, puzzles, and other adventurers
awaiting you in the caves.  Watch out for anything and everything,
for things may not be what they seem.

")
	(Type	Definition)
	)	; end of HELP text for example.

Item	'RIDLRM'	(Prop
	(Description	"You are in a place with unusual markings on the walls,
possibly writings from an ancient language, apparently unknown
to you.  Some of the writing may be legible after closer examination
but I would not count on it.  You cannot see any viable exits from
this chamber.")
	(Name	"Riddle Room")
	(Action	(Prop
		(ENTRY	(SET (RIDDLE RAND(RIDLEN)))
			(SET (RIDANS FALSE)) )
		(READ	(DISPLAY  RIDTXT(RIDDLE)))
		(ANSWER	(EQUAL (RIDCOD(RIDDLE) INTEXT) (INCREMENT LOCATION(CRETIN)) ) )
		) )

2	Amazon Room			There is a scale model of a small cave-like room here
					....there is a man-like figure walking around in this room.
					(if you pick him up, you better put him down)

3	Equipment Shop			There are all kinds of camping tools & things here in the
					shop, each item is worth some number of points.

4	Top of Cliff			There is a large catapult-like contraption for launching
					some type of aircraft.  It seems to be loaded.

5	Jail				You may enter the Jail as a spectator or a prisoner.
					....Prisoners cannot leave except when taken to court.

6	Court Room			A large chamber with a Bench, Jury box, a Desk and a Stand.
					....Behind the bench there is a figure clad in a long dark robe
					with a gavel in his hand.
					....*The policeman asks if the man behind the desk is your Lawyer,
					....*Your Lawyer motions you to come near & be seated behind the desk.

7	Execution Chamber		You have been found GUILTY by the court & were senetnced to die
					in the execution chamber.   Neither you nor your cohorts are allowed
					back into the amazon valley until Tomorrow... You have just been Executed.

8	The Shipyard			Home of Captain Hook & his gang... "beware the hook".

9	Wendy's Room			You are in a Warm & Cozy little room with a large fluffy bed against
					one wall.  The bedspread is embroidered in large script letters the
					word "WENDY".  Against another wall there is a desk, and a chest of
					drawers.
					....*The desk is Locked.
					....*The desk is Unlocked.

10	Bar Room			You are in a small dimly lit tavern.  There is a sign on one wall
					which reads "Examiners & Collectors" with a short list of names.
					....*There is a burly looking Troll behind the bar serving drinks.
					....*The bartender is nowhere to be seen.
					....*The bartender brings you your drink.
					....*The bartender asks you a question. (There are 36 different questions)
					....*The bartender exclaims "Congratulations, You have just passed your Bar Exam"
					and he walks over to the sign and adds your name to the list of Examiners.
					....*The bartender grabs you by the collar & throws you out into the night.
11	Broom Closet			You are in a tiny Closet with a which seems to have been swept clean recently.
					....*There is an old Broom with strange writing on the handle leaning against the wall.
					....*There is an old Black Hat lying here.
					....*There is an old *Lady Waiting outside in the hallway.
					....*There is a *Wicked Witch outside in the hallway.

12	Elm Grove			You are in a large open field surrounded by Elm trees, there is a large wooden
					sign in the West corner of the field.
					....*The sign says "This way to the Skull Cave,  Beware!"

13	Entrance to Skull Cave		You are at the entrance to a large cave which looks very much like
					the head of a human being.  The entrance leads through the Mouth of the Skull.

14	Swamp				You are in the swamp, surrounded by trees on all sides.

15	Marsh				You are in the Marshes, surrounded by more marshland.

16	Skull cave			You are in the Skull Cave, there are Skulls hanging all over the walls.
					....*There is a skeleton covered with a purple costume lying in the corner.
					....*There is a huge White Stallion tied up here.
					....*There is an old man in a purple costume sitting nearby.

17	Witch's Castle			You are in a large Castle with many towers and corridors leading in all directions.
					....There is an old lady with an apple cart off to one side.
					....*There is an old hag wearing a pointed cap and a long black cape nearby.
					....*There is a Black cat sitting in the corner.

18	WIld Honeysuckle field		You are passing through a large field of Yellow and White Honeysuckle.
					....*There are many tiny arms which are reaching toward you.
					....*The arms have grabbed your Honey and are quickly drawing away.
					....*The arms have grabbed you and are trying to pull you apart.
					....*The arms have released you and are quickly drawing away.

19	Amazon River Bank		You are standing on the bank of the Amazon River.  Below you is a raging torrent
					with a few boulders lying here and there.  To the west is a large wooden sign with
					writing on it.
					....*Welcome to the Amazon River Valley, be pleased to discover a new world
					within the caves and jungle villages to be found nearby.  Untold treasures
					await you deep inside the Amazon, but beware the suspicious... There are Witches,
					Demons, and wild animals running loose which are as deadly to you as they
					appear wonderful.  Many a soul has died within, leaving all the treasures of
					Lost generations, Dead Adventurers and Fairy Kingdoms to those skillful enough
					to obtain them.

20	Shadow Room			You have just entered the "SHADOW ROOM" guarded by the shadow of evil.  If you
					are caught, you must make it to the surface before nightfall, else you will die.
					If you are caught more than once by the Shadow, you will surely die!
					....There ais something moving toward you from the right... flee quickly.
21	Padded Cell			You seem to have wandered through the halls of an Asylum, You are now in
					a small cell-like room which has padding on the floor, walls and ceiling.
					....*There is an old man sitting here wearing a pointed hat.
					....*There is a book here titled "Yellav Nozama Eht Sdraziw Dnarg".
					....*The book seems to be fastened shut.
					....*The book opens and seems to be readable.
					....* Nozama :drow cigam,  Xnihpfs Cxx -- Enasni Eht Fo Yraid.

22	[]