SEG EXECUTIVE
[A-code executive rev.19.2, GGR version 4.3 - 23 Mar 84]

Welcome to Adventure4 (660 point GGR version 4.3 - 26 Jul 84).

Would you like instructions?
no
You are standing at the end of a road before a small brick building.
Around you is a forest. A small stream flows out of the building and
down a gully and a wide path leads northwest.

? take

take what?

? take xyzzy

Don't be ridiculous!

? eat keys

I see no keys here.

? foo

Nothing happens.

? TAKE LAMP

I see no lamp here.

? in

You are inside a building, a well house for a large spring.

There are some keys on the ground here.
There is a shiny brass lamp nearby.

? get lamp, get keys

Ok.


Don't be ridiculous!

? inventory

Your posessions currently consist of:
Brass lantern

? 


? look

You are inside a building, a well house for a large spring.

There are some keys on the ground here.

? brief

Okay, from now on I shall describe a place in full the first time you
come to it. To get the full description, say "LOOK".

? help

I know of places, actions, and things. To move, try words like ENTER
(and EXIT), EAST (or E for short), NORTH (or N), SOUTHWEST (or SW), UP
(or U) etc. Words like DOWNSTREAM, CLIMB, CROSS may also come handy.
Some other useful commands are INVENTORY (or INV), LOOK, SCORE, INFO
etc. Objects can be manipulated using some of the verbs that I know.
Usually you have to give both the object and the verb (in either
order), but sometimes I can infer the object from the verb alone (e.g.
both LIGHT and EXTINGUISH imply LAMP). Some objects have side-effects;
for instance, rods scare birds. Usually people trying unsuccessfully
to manipulate an object are attempting something beyond their (or my)
capabilities and should try a completely different tack. Novice
players often forget that I only look at the first two meaningful words
in any command. For example THROW AXE AT DWARF will not do anything
that THROW AXE would not achieve. To speed up the game you can sometimes
move long distances with a single word. For example "BUILDING" usually
gets you to the building from most places above ground except when lost
in the forest. Also, note that cave passages turn a lot, and that
leaving a room to the north does not guarantee entering the next from
the south. Finally, it is worth remembering that I mostly mean just
what I say.
                              Good luck!

? west

You're at end of road again.

? fly

Only witches can fly.

? swim

I don't know how.

? wave

Nothing happens.

? score

If you were to quit now, you would score a total of 0 points,
out of a possible maximum of 660 points, using 18 turns.

? save

If you suspend your Adventure now, you will have to wait at least 30
minutes before continuing.
Is this acceptable?
no
Ok.

? quit

Do you really want to quit now?
n
Ok.

? quit

Do you really want to quit now?
y


You have scored 0 out of a possible 660 points, using 21 turns.

You are obviously a rank amateur. Better luck next time.

To reach the next qualification level you need 30 more points.

OK, 