You're back inside a rock again!!
You have managed to transport yourself inside a volume of solid rock!!You cannot move!  You rapidly realize that you've blown it!
You're back at the crossroad again.
You are standing at the intersection of two roads, surrounded by a    number of decayed mud buildings.  To the north, the road dips down    to a dried watercourse (wadi), and then disappears into a gorge.  To  the east, the road disappears behind some tents which are visiblebeyond a newer building.  To the south, the road snakes out of town.  To the west, that road can be seen descending to a dried up river.
You're at the north edge of town.
You are on the road at the north edge of the town.  To the east  a group of tents are set up at the base of high, red cliffs.A dry wadi descends from the northeast, and circles around to    the west of the town.  Beyond it, to the northeast, the valeis rimmed with white cliffs, while to the northwest, grey cliffs loom over a pile of sand dunes.  The road is almost obscured by  drifting sand beyond the wadi, but continues into the gorge between the white and grey cliffs.  The crossroad can be seen to the south, and ruined towers can be seen above the town to the   southeast.
You're at the wadi by the north road.
The north road crosses the wadi and becomes a track here.  To    the south can be seen the mud walls of the town, and behind them, to their left, the towers of a ruined fortification.  Toward the northeast, the wadi passes up a valley between red    and white cliffs, along with a line of low mounds.  To the  west, sand dunes lie to the right of the wadi.
You're at the entrance to the gorge.
The faint track comes out of the gorge and proceeds south toward the town in the distance.  White and grey cliffs lie to the east and west.
You're in the gorge.
The gorge is so narrow that little light penetrates to the faint north-bound track at the bottom.
You're in the box canyon.
The track ends here in a cul-de-sac, where the gorge widens into a box canyon.  There is lush vegetation here, indicating thepresence of water.  This is supported by the presence--against   the north wall at the base of a dry waterfall--of an ancientruined basin, now filled with leaves and loose dirt, which was   at one time a container for water.  Nearby are stones laid into  patterns of building foundations.
You're in the basin.
You are mucking about in the basin.
You're at the base of the white cliffs.
The ground here slopes to the wadi south of us.  There is a fainttrack to the west, and the head of the wadi in the valley to the east.
You're in the wadi, east of the road.
The wadi climbs to the northeast between red and white cliffs.   To the south can be seen the town and a group of tents.  A road  lies to the west, going north into a gorge.
You're at the head of the wadi.
You are at the head of the wadi, surrounded by sheer cliffs.  A  line of pit-mounds marches up beside the wadi.
You're at the red cliffs above the wadi.
You are at the base of the red cliffs, above the wadi.  To the   south can be seen an ancient fortress beyond the tents; to the   SE can be seen the town.
You're in town to the east of crossroads.
You are in the town, just to the east of the crossroads.  To the north is the police station, to the south is a merchant's store.
You're in the police station.
You have entered the police station.  The police have proudly    shown you around, and invited you to leave any valuables here    for safekeeping.
You're at the east edge of town.
You are at the east edge of town, on the road.  To the north is awell overlooking a broad valley, while to the northeast you see  a tent camp.  On the south side of the road, massive stone walls rise, topped by a tower.  These are obviously man-made, but very old.
You're at the well.
A line of mounds leads north from here, finally curving out of   sight to the northeast, behind the red cliffs.  The southernmound has a pit in the center, and is obviously a well.  To the  east is a tent camp.  Across the road to the south rises a stone wall, part of a ruined fortification.  This disappears behind thetown to the southwest.  Another road can be seen to the west, andthere is a wadi to the north and west.
You're between the well and the wadi.
You are at the line of mounds south of the wadi.  Each mound has a pit in the center.  Red cliffs rise to the east.  A well can beseen to the south, and a road to the west.  A large pile of rubble lie here, obviously the dump of the archeological    expedition.
You're at the red cliffs above the camp.
You are at the base of the red cliffs, above the camp.  Beyond   the camp can be seen the fortress beyond the road, leading towardthe town to the right.  Beyond the town lies the lower end of    the wadi, bordered by black cliffs.  To the west, beyond another road and the middle of the wadi, lie great sanddunes at the base of great grey cliffs.  The panorama extends to the north of us,  where the wadi passes to it's head, past tall white cliffs.  Below    us is a line of wells, reaching to the wadi.  There is a cave here!
You're at the north gate.
You are at the north gate of the fortification, on the road outside.  To the north are tents, with the town to the west.
You're on the road to the east of the camp.
You are on the east road, in a narrow between the red cliffs to the   north and the brown cliffs to the south.  To the west can be seentents and the town, and a ruined fortress climbs over the cliff to    the southwest.
You're at the landslide.
The cliffs have collapsed here, burying the road in loose dirt.  There is no obvious exit except back to the west.
You're west of the crossroad.
You are in the town, just west of the crossroad.  To the west,   You can look out of town, down toward a dried-up riverbed.  Beyond    it to the northwest lie grey cliffs above an area of sand dunes, while to the southwest there are black cliffs.  In the distance, the road passes between these cliffs.  A narrow lane leads south.
You're at the west end of town.
You are on the west road at the edge of the town.  To the south  and southwest, a line of black cliffs, on the other side of the  dried stream-bed, marches north and vanishes in the west.  To    the north, beyond the river are sand dunes, and beyond them rise grey cliffs, which also head to the west.
You're where the west road crosses the riverbed.
You are on the west road, where it crosses the riverbed.  Tothe north, grey cliffs lead off to a gorge, and below these cliffs there are sand dunes.  The river bed comes down from the northeast, and arcs past us, leading south below tall   black cliffs to the southwest.  To the east can be seen the mud huts of the town, and, rising above them, ruined   battlements.  To the west, the road runs through a defile   between the black and grey cliffs.
You're in the defile.
You are in the defile, squeezed between the black and grey  cliffs.  there is a sign here, which says:        	"BEWARE OF BRIGANDS"
You're at the barracade.
There is a barracade across the road, manned by the police. they advise you that the area to the west is extremely unsafe,   since there are bandits roaming there.  The police are unable    to protect you if you venture further, and insist that you returnback to the vale of ARCHON!
You're just outside of town to the northwest.
You are above the wadi, across from the sand dunes.  To the southeast is the town, with ruins looming above it.  There are   roads to the east and south, leading from the town to a gorge anda defile, respectively.
You're in the wadi by the sand dunes.
You are in the wadi northwest of the town.  A road crosses to    the east, while the wadi curves toward the south.  Sand dunes    lie to the northwest, below tall grey cliffs.
You're in the dried-up wadi north of the road.
You are in the dried-up wadi, just north of the road runningwest of the town.  To the north are grey cliffs overlooking an area of sand dunes.  To the southeast of the town can be seen ruins.
You're at the southern edge of the sand dunes.
You are at the southern edge of the sand dunes, above the   wadi.  To the northwest lie grey cliffs, and the town is in the  opposite direction.  The wadi can be seen to cross a road west   of the town.
You're at the eastern edge of the sand dunes.
You are at the eastern edge of the sand dunes, near the track    running into the gorge.  Above you, to the northwest, loom  great grey cliffs.
You're at the north edge of the sand dunes.
You are at the north edge of the sand dunes.  Directly aboveyou rise giant grey cliffs.
You're at the western edge of the sand dunes.
You are at the western edge of the sand dunes.  Directly above   rise giant grey cliffs.  A dried-up wadi comes from the east,    and leads off south, toward a road.  To the southeast can beseen the walls of the town, with a fortress behind it.
You're at the cliffs north of the defile.
You are at the base of the grey cliffs, north of where the  road enters a defile.  The cliffs continue to the northeast above the sand dunes.  To the southeast, across the watercourse, lies the town, with a fortress behind it.
You're at the base of the cliffs behind the sand dunes.
You are at the base of the grey cliffs.  Rubble which has fallen from the cliffs lies half-buried by the drifting sand of thesand dunes below the cliffs.
You're in the midst of the sand dunes.
You are in the middle of the sand dunes.  To the north rise grey cliffs.
You're in the store.
You have entered the merchant's store.  There is a signposted saying:      	        BIG SALE!!	    Everything must go!	(Subject to stock on hand)  	**         lamps         ** 	**    picks & shovels    ** 	**        canteens       ** 	**         ropes         ** 	**     camel saddles     ** 	**    leather jackets    **
You're to the southeast of the town.
You are at the southeast side of the town, hard up against the   fortress walls, which run south from the town.  To the west,across the road, The valley dips down to a watercourse, and then up again to black cliffs behind it.
You're at the western gate of the fortress.
You are at the western gate of the fortress.  Below you is the   road, and the walls to the south rise on top of a brown cliff.
You're in the town on the south road.
You are on the road just south of the crossroad.  A narrow  alley enters from the west.
You're on the road at the south edge of town.
You are on the road at the south edge of town.  To the east rises a massive stone fortress.  The road continues toward the   south, wandering through fields and an area of low structures    toward a brown cliff.  Toward the southwest can be seen a   watercourse, backed by high black cliffs.
You're at the NE edge of the tombs.
You are NE of the tombs on the south road below the fortress.    To the SE can be seen a gate.  The road continues toward thefields to the south.
You're to the southeast of the tombs.
You are to the southeast of the tombs, on the road.  There  are fields to the south, and the fortress dominates the skyline  to the east.
You're on the south road at the edge of the fort and cliff.
You are on the south road at the edge of the fort and brown cliff to the east.  The town can be seen to the north, beyond    the tombs.  Just to the west is a dried watercourse, with black  cliffs beyond it.
You're on the south road below the brown cliffs.
You are on the south road below the brown cliffs to the east.    To the north can be seen the town, and the fortress perched on   the cliff to the northeast.  To the west are black cliffs beyond the watercourse.
You're in the alley off the south road.
You're in the lane off the west road.
You're at the intersection of the lane and alley.
You're in the lane at the south of the town.
You're in the west end of the alley.
You're at the west end of the alley.
You are at the west end of the alley, overlooking the wadi  and the black cliffs beyond.  To the north lies the west road.   To the southeast can be seen structures, overshadowed by thefortress atop high brown cliffs.
You're in the wadi south of the western road.
You are in the wadi south of the western road.  To the east lies the town, while to the west rise black cliffs, which   converge with the grey cliffs to the northwest to form a defile. The wadi runs from north to south here.
You're between the town and the tombs.
You are at the south end of the town lane, to the north of the   tombs.  The fortress dominates the eastern skyline, and the wadi lies to the west.
You'e in the northeast section of the tombs.
You're in the southeast section of the tombs.
You're in the center section of the tombs.
You are in the center section of the tombs.  A magnificent  edifice rises here, in memory of some ancient hero.
You're in the southwest section of the tombs.
You're in the northwest section of the tombs.
You're in the field west of the tombs.
You are in the field west of the tombs, overlooking the wadi.    To the east rises the fortress, and the town is to the northeast.
You're in the wadi below the tombs.
Above you rise great black cliffs, as you rest in the watercoursebelow the tombs, to the southwest of the town.
You're below the black cliffs.
You are at the southwestern edge of the Vale, where great black  cliffs rise to immense heights.  Below you is the watercourse,   and beyond it is the town to the northeast, and the tombs and    fortress to the east.  The wadi comes from the north, and exits  toward the southeast.
You're at the sewer!
You are in the streambed southeast of the tombs.  There enters   from that direction a foul, loathsome sewer, obviously still in  good working order after thousands of years.
You're near the south end of the wadi.
You're at the south end of the black cliffs.
You are at the south edge of the Vale, where the black cliffs    force the riverbed toward the east.
You're at the south end of the Vale.
You have come to the southern end of the Vale, where the brown   and black cliffs come together, squeezing the streambed and road together, before they both end at a small beach, bordered   by the cliffs.  Beyond the beach is a sea-cove, very still and   sweltering hot.
You're in the morgue behind the police station!
You're in small cave.
You are in a small, recently dug-out cave (obviously the    archeologist has been here).  There are minute scraps of parchment here.
You're in collapsed cave.
You have reached a small, collapsed cave.  There is no room for  you here!
You're in mid-air again!
You come out in mid-air, fifty feet above the ground.  It takes  you 2 seconds to reach the ground, with a loud WWOOOMMPP!!
You're in the main office.
You are in the main office of the expedition.  There is a desk   here, strewn with papers, bits of stone, and shards of pottery.
You're in the southwest section of the camp.
You're in the western section of the camp.
You're in the northwestern section of the camp.
You're in the southeastern section of the camp.
You'e in the eastern section of the camp.
You're in the northeastern section of the camp.
You're in the work tent with the crates.
You are in one of the expedition work tents, where finds are crated   for shipment.  There are many crates here.
You're in the work tent where the finds are sorted.
You are in one of the expedition work tents, where finds are sorted.  There are tables covered with pottery fragments here.
You're in the work tent where the finds are cleaned.
You are in one of the expedition work tents, where the finds are cleaned.  There are brushes, rags, and basins of water here.
You're in the cook tent.
You are in the cook tent, filled with stoves, kettles, pots, and large mounds of vegetables and other provisions.
You're in the tent of the expedition leader.
You're in the first residence tent.
You're in the camp latrine.
You're in the second residence tent.
You're in the third residence tent.
You're in the dining tent.
You're in the showers.
You're in the fourth residence tent.
You're in the fifth residence tent.
You're within the north gate.
You are within the north gate of the fortress, a roofed over,    easily defendable passage.  Outside can be seen the road.
You're within the west gate.
You are within the west gate of the fortress, a roofed-over,easily defendable passage.  Outside can be seen the road.
You're at the base of the north wall, by the gate.
You're at the base of the north tower.
You're at the base of the northwest wall.
You're at the base of the northwest tower.
You're at the base of the west wall, by the gate.
You're at the base of the west tower.
You're at the southwest wall below the cliff.
You are at the southwest wall of the fortress.  The wall crosses the brown cliffs here, which loom above us, and continue to the  northeast.
You're in the western court of the fortress.
You are in the western court of the fortress.  To the southeast steps climb the brown cliffs which pass through the fortress.
You're in the northern courtyard of the fortress.
You are in the northern courtyard of the fortress.  To the  southeast, steps climb the brown cliffs, which pass through the  fortress here.
You're at the base of the northeast tower.
You're at the northeast wall below the cliff.
You are at the northeast wall of the fortress.  The wall crosses the brown cliffs here, which loom above us, and continue to the  southwest.
You're at the base of the eastern steps.
You are at the base of the eastern steps which climb the brown   cliffs here.
You're at the base of the southern steps.
You are at the base of the southern steps which climb the brown  cliffs here.
You're at the base of the southwest wall atop the cliffs.
You're at the top of the western stairs.
You are at the top of the western stairs which descend the brown cliffs here.
You're at the top of the northern stairs.
You're at the top of the northern stairs which descend the brown cliffs here.
You're at the base of the NE wall atop the cliff.
You're at the base of the eastern tower.
You're in the eastern courtyard of the fortress.
You're in the southern courtyard of the fortress.
You're at the base of the southwestern tower.
You're at the base of the southern wall.

You're at the base of the southern tower.
You're at the base of the southeastern wall.
You're at the base of the southeastern tower.
You're at the base of the eastern wall.
You're in the eastern tower.
You're in the northeastern tower.
You're in the northern tower.
You are in the northern tower.  There is a doorway here.
You're in the northwestern tower.
You're in the western tower.
You're in the southwestern tower.
You're in the southern tower.
You're in the southeastern tower.
You're at the top of the southeastern tower.
You're at the top of the eastern wall.
You're at the top of the eastern tower.
You're at the top of the northeastern wall.
You're at the top of the northeastern tower.
You're in tower room.
You have entered a room in the north tower.  The room is bare,   except for a shelf on one wall.
You're at the top of the northern wall.
You're at the top of the northern tower.
You're at the top of the northwestern wall.
You're at the top of the northwestern tower.
You're at the top of the western wall.
You're at the top of the western tower.
You're at the top of the southwestern wall.
You're at the top of the southwestern tower.
You're at the top of the southern wall.
You're at the top of the southern tower.
You're at the top of the southeastern wall.
You're in tunnel at bottom of well.
You are in the tunnel at the bottom of the well.  Waterflows in from the north, and out to the south.    The end of a rope hangs here.
You're at end of tunnel.
You have reached the end of the tunnel.  The roof has collapsed  here, preventing you from exploring further south, even though   the water seems to have found a place to seep out.
You're in tunnel.
You are in the tunnel, just north of the well, at the base  of an unclimbable shaft.
You're in tunnel.
You're in tunnel.
You're in tunnel.
Dead end!
You are at a dead end.  Water bubbles out of the ground here,    and flows south through the tunnel.
You're at the junction of an east-bound road and the main road.
You are at the junction of an east-bound road and the main road. To the south is the town, with the castle to the southeast.  To the   NE is an grove of date palms, while to the NW there are sheep.
You're north of the junction.
You are just north of the road junction.  To the east are   date palms, while to the north the road crosses the wadi.  To    west is an enclosure for sheep.
You're crossing the wadi, north of town.
You are on the road north of town, where it crosses the wadi.    There is a trickle of water here.  The wadi comes from the NE,   and passes south of the ruins to the west.
You're on the road north of the wadi.
You're in the gorge.
You're in the box canyon.
The road ends here in a box canyon.  There is lush vegetation here,   and a trickle of water runs down the north wall into an ancient  basin, which is half-full of mud and leaves.  A fallen building  lies nearby.
You're in the basin.
You're at the base of the white cliffs.
You are at the base of the white cliffs.  The ground here slopes south to the wadi.  We are east of the road, and the head of the wadi is to the east of us.
You're at the wadi east of the road.
You are at the wadi east of the road.  To the north rise white   cliffs, while to the south can be seen the castle beside thetown.
You're at the head of the wadi.
You're at the red cliffs above the wadi.
You're on the road just east of the junction.
You're in a grove of date palms.
You're on the road south of the well.
You are on the road, south of the well.  There is a small town   to the southeast.  To the south is a castle, ringed with    battlements and towers.  A banner flying from the nearest   tower proclaims:         	IIth Crusade GHQ
You're at the well.
You're between the well and the wadi.
You're at the base of the red cliffs overlooking the road.
You're on the road NE of the castle.
You're on the eastern road below the brown cliffs.
You're in the gap.
You're in a gap, between red cliffs to the north, and brown cliffs    to the south.  To the east the road crosses a swamp, via a bridge.    The bridge is, however, broken, and there is no way to go in thatdirection!
You're between the red cliffs and the road.
You're just west of the intersection.
You're west of the intersection.
You're in the wadi, west of the intersection.
You're at the east of the sand dunes.
You're at the north of the sand dunes.
You're at the center of the sand dunes.
You are at the center of the sand dunes.  To the north rise grey cliffs; to the south they are black.  They come together to the west.
You're at the south of the sand dunes.
You're in the defile, which is here clogged with sand.
You're in the sheep fold.
you're just to the NW of the junction, in a fold or paddock for  sheep.
You're in the wadi west of the road.
You're in the wadi by the northern sand dunes.
you're to the south of the NW ruins.
You're just east of the NW ruins.
You're at the NW ruins.
You are at the northwest corner of the vale, below the grey There are ruins of a once-fine building here, surrounded by the  remains of great gardens.
You're to the southwest of the NW ruins.
You're at the base of the Grey cliffs.
You're in the stall of the ironmonger.
You are in a small stall at the edge of town.  The ironmonger    works here, but is not here now.
You're just to the southwest of the town.
You're to the southwest of town.
you're in the wadi at the south end of the sand dunes.
You're at the base of the black cliffs south of the sand dunes.
You're in the wadi, SW of town.
You're NW of the tombs area.
you're in the field across the road from the castle.
You're on the south road through town.
You're on the road west of the castle.
You're on the west road just south of town.  To the east is a    castle under construction (probably by the crusaders), while to  the southwest are tombs.
You're on the south road, SW of the castle.
You're in the fields south of the tombs.
You're on the south road, south of the fields.
You're at the south end of the Vale.
you have come to the southern end of the vale, where the brown   and black cliffs come together.  The road and the riverbed both  end at a small beach, beyond which is a cove of the sea.  A fair breeze comes from the mouth of the cove.
You're in the southeast tombs.
You're in the northeast tombs.
You're in the northwest tombs.
You're at magnificent edifice.
You are near the center of the area of the tombs.  Here there is a magnificent edifice, erected many eras ago to honor some ancient    hero.
You're to the southwest of the tombs.
You're at the sewer.
You are in the wadi, southwest of the tombs.  There enters from  that direction a foul sewer, in good working order after a thousand   years.
You're near the south end of the wadi.
You're at the south end of the black cliffs.
You're at the south edge of the vale, where the black cliffsforce the riverbed toward the east.
You're just to the southwest of the castle.
You're in the courtyard of the crusader's castle.
You're just to the northeast of the castle.
You're in the northeast portcullis of the castle.
You're at the southwest drawbridge of the castle.
You're at the base of the north tower.
You're at the base of the east tower.
You're at the base of the south tower.
You're at the base of the western tower.
You're in the north tower.
You're in the eastern tower.
You're in the southern tower.
You're in the west tower.
You're at the top of the southeast wall.
You are at the top of the souteast wall of the crusader's castle.Below you lies the courtyard, while you tower over the browncliffs without.
You're at the top of the east tower.
You're at the top of the northeast wall.
You're at the top of the north tower.
You're at the top of the northwest wall.
You're at the top of the west tower.
You're at the top of the southwest wall.
You're at the top of the southern tower.
You are at the top of the south tower of the crusader's castle.  below you is the courtyard, while within lies a stone staircase  leading down.  Without, the brown cliff lies below you, and passes    to the southwest.  Above the cliff, the land stretches into the  distance as a brown, featureless plateau.
Dead end!
You're in tunnel.
You're in tunnel.
You're in tunnel.
You're in tunnel at bottom of well.
You're in tunnel.
You are in the tunnel, which continues to the south.  A holein the ceiling has been blocked up here.
You're at end of tunnel.
You have reached the end of the tunnel.  The way downstream is blocked by fallen rock, but this area seems stable.
You're in a small cave.
You have entered a small cave, which has been sealed for a long  time.
You're in ruins.
You have entered the NW ruins.  Dust and rubble choke the   inside of the building, and crawling things make you aware of    their presence.  Cobwebs and grime obscure faded frescoes onthe walls.
You're in mid-air again!
You come out in mid-air, a hundred feet above the ground.  Your  descent is rapid, and you hit the ground with a WWOOOMMPP!!
You're on the road, just north of the town.
You're on the road, crossing the wadi.
You're on the road, between the gorge and the wadi.
You are on the road, beside the stream flowing from the gorge    into the wadi.
You're in the gorge.
You are in the gorge. a clear stream runs beside the road here.
You're in the box canyon.
You are in the box canyon.  A steady stream of water pours down  the waterfall into a basin, which is scoured clean.  The water   flows out of the basin, through lush vegetation, and thence down the gorge.  Nearby, a roofless stone building stands.
You're within the roofless building.
You're at the base of the white cliffs.
You're in the wadi, east of the road.
You're at the head of the wadi.
You're at the red cliffs above the wadi.
You're between the quanat and the wadi.
You're just west of the quanat.
You're just north of the well.
You're just south of the red cliffs.
You're at the base of the red cliffs.
You are at the base of the red cliffs.  Stout masonry seals what may have been a former cave entrance.
you're between the red cliffs and the garrison.
You're in the gap, at the lake.
You are in the gap, which is blocked here by a lake, stretching  from one cliff to the other.  It is to deep to wade, and too far to swim.
You're at the base of the brown cliff, NE of the garrison.
You're at the well.
You are at the well, to the east of what passes for a small town.  to the south is the garrison, a small fortification  with a watch-tower on the near side, surmounted by a standard    proclaiming:        	IIIth Legion Headquarters
You're in the bazaar.
You're on the road in the town.
You're outside the gate of the garrison.
You're between the town and the tombs.
You're just to the SE of the town.
You're in the closet.
You are in a closet, which appears to belong to the dungeon master!
You're just west of the town.
You're in the wadi, west of town.
You're in the sand below the black cliffs.
You're just to the NE of the town.
You're in donkey paddock.
You are just off the road, north of the town.  There is a paddockfor donkeys here.
You're in the wadi, east of the sands.
You're in the wadi, west of the road.
You are in the wadi, dotted with occasional pools of water and   small trickles.  The water comes from the northeast, and flows   toward the south.
You're in the wadi just west of the road.
You're between the villa and the wadi.
You are west of the road, overlooking the wadi and the town beyond.  To the northwest, towering grey cliffs hang over anornate Roman villa.
You're between the sand and the villa.
You are below the grey cliffs, overlooking the wadi and the town beyond.  to the south lies sand, but to the northeast there is   a Roman villa.
You're in the sand below the grey cliffs.
Here sand spills out of the defile, and down toward the wadi.    To the southeast can be seen the town.
You're at the villa.
You have come to a Roman villa, surrounded by gardens.  To the   north and west, shelter is provided by the grey cliffs.  toward  the south, the town can be seen beyond the wadi.  The terrace of the  Villa lies above you.
You're between the road and the Villa.
You are below the grey cliffs, west of the road.  To the west    can be seen a Roman villa above the wadi.
You're at the base of the grey cliffs, above the villa.
You are at the base of the grey cliffs, above a Roman villa.Further south can be seen the town beyond the wadi, while tothe east is the road.
You're at the base of the grey cliffs, near the sand.
You are at the base of the grey cliffs.  To the south lies sand, while to the east lies a Roman villa, above the wadi.
You're at the base of the black cliffs, south of the sand.
You're in the wadi, southwest of town.
You're at the base of the black cliffs, south of town.
You're at the sewer.
You're in the field west of the tombs.
You're at a magnificent temple.
You are at a magnificent temple, raised to some distant hero.
You're in the northeast tombs.
You're in the southeast tombs.
You're at the south end of the Vale.
You have come to the south end of the Vale, where the road  ends beside a sandy beach, broached by the stream.  Beyond lies  a fine, sheltered cove of the sea.
You're south of the tombs.
You're on the road between the tombs and the garrison.
You're south of the garrison.
You're in the gateway of the Roman garrison.
You're just inside the garrison gate.
You are just inside the gate of the Roman garrison.  To the east is a courtyard, while steps lead to the top of the walls, both   to the north and south.
You are in the garrison courtyard.
You've entered the Roman barracks.
You've entered the Roman stables.
You're at the top of the wall, south of the gate.
You're on the south wall.
You're on the east wall.
You're on the north wall.
You're on the west wall, north of the gate.
You are at the base of the tower.
you are on the northeast top of the garrison walls, at the base  of the watchtower.
You're inside the watchtower.
You're at the top of the watch tower.
Dead end!
You're in the tunnel.
You're in the tunnel.
You're in tunnel at bottom of well.
You're in the tunnel at the bottom of the well.
You're in settling cistern.
You have reached a settling cistern, but the roof has collapsed  beyond, preventing further travel downstream.  The cistern is    almost full of mud.
You're in small cave.
You are in a small cave.  The entrance has been sealed with strong masonry.
You're on villa's terrace.
You are on the terrace of the Villa.  It is bordered with   ornamental plantings in box, carefully pruned into fantastical   shapes...lions, panthers, centaurs, etc.  They do look a little  ragged around the edges, though.   The Villa itself is a large, marble building to the north.  A    broad portico is flanked by two towers.
You're under Villa's portico.
You are beneath the portico of the Villa, flanked by two towers. To the north is the entrance to the Villa.
You're in the Villa's Atrium.
You have entered the Atrium.  Doorways open in each of the walls,which are otherwise decorated with painted scenes.
You're in the eastern pavilion.
You are in the pavilion, east of the Atrium.  It is bounded by   walls on all sides but the north, though the east and west  walls have doors.
You're in the northern pavilion.
You are in the pavilion, north of the Atrium.  The wall to the   north contains a doorway.
You're in the western pavilion.
You are in the pavilion, west of the Atrium.  It is bounded by   on all sides but the north by walls, though the east and west    walls have doors.
You're in the North wing corridor.
You have entered the corridor running along the wall of the north wing.  It is rather shabby, but you note that all of the   doors are numbered.
You're in the East wing corridor.
You have entered the corridor running along the wall of the east wing.  It is tidy, and you notice that all of the doorsare numbered.
You're in the West wing corridor.
You have entered the corridor running along the wall of the west wing.  Rubble litters the floor, and it looks as thoughno one has cleaned here for a long time.  You notice that all    of the doors are numbered, although the numbers are so worn that you can barely make them out.
You're in a ruined chamber.
You're in a ruined closet.
You're in the former kitchen, with a large fireplace.
You're in the Cucidarium.
You're in the Frigidarium.
You have entered the Frigidarium.  An icy pool of water fills half    of the room.
You're in the Tepidarium.
You have entered the Tepidarium.  A luke-warm pool of water fillshalf of the room.
You're in the Hot Bath.
You have entered the Hot bath.  Boiling hot water fills half of  the room.
You're in the sitting room.
You have entered the Consol's sitting room.
You're in the bedroom.
You have entered the Consol's bedroom.
You're in the Dining room.
You have entered the Consol's Dining room.
You're in tiny temple.
You have entered a tiny temple.  The roof is held up by 6   marble columns.
You're in box canyon.
You have entered a lush box canyon.  Shrubs and bushes line the  pools of cold, clear water, fed from the roaring waterfall at    the head of the canyon.  A swift stream flows out of the canyon  and down the gorge.  There is a tiny marble temple here.
You're in gorge.
You are within the gorge, which contains a fast-flowing, crystal-clear stream of water.  You are on a narrow trail beside thestream, which otherwise fills the gorge.
You're at head of wadi.
You are at the head of the wadi, below the cliffs.  A small spring    bursts forth here, and tumbles merrily down the valley, through  fields of flowers.
You're at base of white cliffs.
You are at the base of the white cliffs, above the wadi and to   the east of the stream out of the gorge.  Red poppies carpet the ground here.
You're at the stream, below the gorge.
You are at the stream, below the gorge.  Fish can be seen in the clear pools, and below you can be seen a larger stream.
You're below the grey cliffs.
You are below the grey cliffs, west of the gorge.  Flowers  thickly carpet the ground here.
You're at the base of the grey cliffs.
You are at the base of the grey cliffs.  Tiny flowers grow in every   crevice of the cliffs.  Below is a river.
You're at the red cliffs above the wadi.
You're in the wadi, east of the gorge.
You are in the wadi, east of the gorge.  A stream flows from the head of the wadi, and joins the stream from the gorge to ourSW.  There are many flowers on the banks.
You're at the confluence.
You are at the confluence of the stream from the gorge and the   one coming down the wadi.
You're in the NW part of the Vale.
You are in the northwestern part of the Vale.  Behind you rise   grey cliffs, while below you can be seen a large stream.  Other  streams join it to the south and east.
You're at base of red cliffs.
You are at the base of the red cliffs.  There is a walled-upopening here.  Below us is a stream flowing from a lake, beyond  which are brown cliffs.
You're at lake.
You are at the edge of a lake.  It is bordered with dense   clumps of papyrus.  The sounds of many birds can be heard, comingfrom the reeds.  A stream flows out of the lake, to the west.    There are high cliffs to both sides of the lake.
You're beside the stream below the lake.
You're beside the lake stream, near the wadi.
You're at the junction of the wadi and the lake stream.
You're below the grey cliffs, west of the wadi.
You're at base of grey cliffs, west of the wadi.
You're at the entrance to the defile.
You are at the entrance to the defile, which is blocked withwith sand.  To the east lies the river.
You're on the banks of the river.
You are on the banks of the river, east of the defile.
You're just north of the town.
You are just north of the town, in an enclosure for horses.
You're to the north-east of town, in the orchards.
You're at well.
You have come to the well, a stone-circled, shallow cistern filled    with crystal-clear water.  To the south is a tower, and the town is to the southwest.
You're between the tower and lake.
You are at the base of the brown cliffs.  To the northeast is    a lake, while to the west rises a black tower.
You're at the base of the black tower.
You're between the tower and the town.
You are just to the east of the town.  Toward the east rises a   black tower, and to the northeast can be seen a low stone   structure of some sort.  The road from the south ends here.
You're just west of town.
You're at river below black cliffs.
You have come to the river west of town, where it flows lazily   to the south below great black cliffs.
You're at the base of the black cliffs.
You're at the base of the brown cliffs, SE of town.
You are at the base of the brown cliffs.  To the north rises the black tower, and to the northwest lies the town.
You're on the road southeast of the town.
You are on the road, southeast of the town.  To our southwest area cluster of tombs, while in the other direction is a black tower.    Toward the east rise brown cliffs.
You're south of town.
You are just to the south of town, and north of the tombs.
You're in the tombs.
You're in the fields west of the tombs.
You're at edifice.
You are at a magnificent shrine:  an edifice to some past hero.
You're in fields south of tombs.
You're on road, southeast of tombs.
You're at south end of Vale.
You have come to the south end of the Vale, where the river flowsinto a fine cove of the sea.  The road ends here, and there are  several great stones which have been used as moorings.
You're at sewer.
You're at base of black cliffs in the south valley.
You're swimming in the well.
You have jumped into the well, and are swimming around.  You can see the bottom quite clearly.  There seems to be some object downthere.
You're at the bottom of the well.
You have swum down to the bottom of the well, far under water!
You've entered one of the tombs.
You've entered one of the tombs.
You've entered one of the tombs.
You've entered one of the tombs.
You've entered an empty, looted tomb.
You've entered an looted, empty tomb.
You've entered an looted, empty tomb.
You've entered an looted, empty tomb.
You've entered an looted, empty tomb.
You've entered an looted, empty tomb.
You've entered an looted, empty tomb.
You're on the platform.
You have climbed onto a low platform, which has deep grooves or  channels cut into the surface, and which are filled with dried   blood.  It seems to be an altar of some sort.
You're in the box canyon.
You are in a box canyon.  A thundering waterfall enters here fromthe cliffs above, and an icy stream races out of the canyon into the gorge.  There is some sort of raised platform nearby.
You're in the gorge.
You are in the gorge, which is filled from side to side with a   raging, icy mountain stream.  If you are lucky, you can hop from rock to rock, to traverse the gorge.
You're at base of white cliffs.
You are at the base of the white cliffs, to the east ofthe thundering stream issuing from the gorge.  Blue flowers are  everywhere.
You're at the base of the grey cliffs.
You are at the base of the grey cliffs, to the west of the  thundering stream issuing from the gorge.
You're at the head of the valley.
You have arrived at the head of the valley.  There are patches   of snow everywhere, and a small stream issues from the bottom of each.  These steams rapidly combine, and there is quickly a greatstream of icy water flowing down the valley.
You're in the valley, east of the gorge.
You are in the valley, east of the gorge.  A stream flows from   the head of the valley, and joins the stream from the gorge at   to our SW.
You're at the stream, below the gorge.
You are at the stream, below the gorge.  The thundering waters   cover the pools with foam.  Below you can be seen a larger river.
You're below the grey cliffs.
You are below the grey cliffs, west of the gorge.  blue flowers  thickly cover the ground here.
You're at the base of the grey cliffs, to the west of the valley.
You're at the red cliffs, above the valley.
You are at the red cliffs, above the valley.  Blue flowers peek  out of occasional snowdrifts.
You're beside the lake stream, near the valley.
you're at the confluence.
You are at the confluence of the stream from the gorge, and the  one coming down the valley
You're in the NW part of the Vale.
You are in the northwester part of the Vale, between the high    grey cliffs and the river.  Other streams join it to the east andsouth.
You're at base of red cliffs.
You are at the base of the red cliffs.  There is a sealed openinghere.  Below, a stream issues from a reed-filled lake below browncliffs.
You're at lake.
You are at the edge of a lake, bordered with dense clumps ofreeds, full of birds.  High cliffs border the lake, whence issuesa stream.
You're beside the stream below the reedy lake.
You're at the junction of the valley and reedy lake streams.
You're between the tower and the reedy lake.
You're at well.
You have come to the well, a stone-circled, shallow spring filledwith crystal-clear water.  To the south is a tower, and rudebuildings are to the southwest, in the distance.
You're just north of the town.
You are just north of the town, in an enclosure.
You're on the north-west margin of sandy lake.
You are at the edge of the lake, west of town.  The land slopes  down from the town to a fine sandy beach.
You're on the north-west margin of sandy lake.
You have come to a great lake.  Across the lake, above a sandy   beach, can be seen several rude huts of the town.  Just to the   north enters a river.
You're at the entrance of the defile.
You are at the entrance to the defile.  To the west a tangled mass    of trees lie between the grey and black cliffs.
You're in tangle of trees.
You have entered the tangle of trees in the defile.  The trees   seem to be a mixture of willow and other water-loving trees, witha great number of vines interlacing the trunks, in turn overgrownwith brambles.  It is impossible to force one's way more than a short distance into the tangle.
You're at base of black tower.
You are at the base of the black tower, in an area of strange,   deformed vegetation.  There are rude huts to the west.
You're at base of brown cliffs.
You're between Tower and Tomb.
You are in an open area, southeast of the town.  To the northeastrises a black tower, while to the east and southeast rise brown  cliffs.  A large tomb lies to the southwest, and the river can beseento the west, flowing south out of a sandy lake.  The banks ofthe river are overhung with occasional willow trees.
You're southwest of town.
You are southwest of the town, overlooking the lower end of the  lake,  A fine, sandy beach proceeds north along the shore of the lake, and black cliffs can be seen rising across the lake.  To   the Southeast can be seen the upper section of a white marble    building, with it's guilded roof glistening in the sun.
You're in middle of sandy lake.
You have waded into the center of the lake, which is quite shallow    here.  To the south the river flows onward, having entered the lake   from the north.  High black cliffs rise above scattered trees to the west, and the trees get more dense toward the northwest.  There   is a white marble building visible toward the southeast, and a few    rude huts comprise a town toward the northeast.  The lake is quite    warm, and the bottom is a fine, silty sand.
You're in woods at base of black cliffs.
You are at the base of the black cliffs, in an open woodland,    comprised mostly of oak trees.  to the east lies a lake, with a  river entering from the north, and exiting toward the south.  Across  the Vale can be seen a white building south of some huts and a tower.
You're in tomb.
You have entered the white, marble tomb.  An oil lamp gutters in one corner, casting a faint light within the tomb.  Ancient driedrushes litter the floor, and the floor is stained in the center, from oil (an offering, perhaps).
You're southeast of tomb.
you are to the southeast of the tomb.  Brown cliffs rise toward  your southeast.
You're southwest of tomb.
You are to the southwest of the tomb.  Dense woods lie across thelake toward the northwest, and there is a river leading south from    the lake.
You're at rockslide.
You are at the base of the black cliffs, just above the river.   A rockslide has occured here, and immense boulders lie in the    river.  Toward the northeast, several mud huts can be seen beyondthe sandy lake, and nearer there is a white building.
You're at base of brown cliffs, near south end of vale.
You're along river south of sandy lake.
You are at a muddy stretch of river, south of the sandy lake.    A small, vile-smelling effluent is discharged into the river here,    from a small channel leading off toward the town.
You're at base of black cliffs, south of rockslide.
You are at the base of the black cliffs, south of the rockslide. below you is the river, flowing south out of the sandy lake.
You're at narrows above cove.
You are in a narrow canyon, between the black and brown cliffs.  the river flows in from the northwest, and exits to the south,   into a fine, small cove.  The cove is surrounded by cliffs, except    where a small channel leads off to the sea beyond the cliffs.    Between you and the cove is a small beach, with marks of recent  activity, including marks where a galley was drawn up onto the   sand.  Other evidence indicates that this cove is a frequentport for Phonecian traders, and perhaps others.   There seems to be a doorway in the cliff to the east of the cove.
You're at cove by entrance to maze.
You are at a small cove.  A stream issues from between two cliffshere, and empties into the sea.  To the east lies a portal carvedinto the cliff.  Above it is written (in Cretian):	  ---CAUTION---   Herein the Minotaur awaits you in the maze!
You're back inside water-filled passage again!!
You have managed to transport yourself into a water-filled  passage.  You rapidly drown, realizing that you've blown it!
You're in maze, with walls to the W and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the N.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and E.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and E.
You're in maze, with walls to the N, W, and S.  Dead end!
You're in maze, with walls to the S.
You're in maze, with walls to the N, E, and S.  Dead end!
You're in maze, with walls to the E and W.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and E.
You're in maze, with walls to the N.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the N, W, and S.  Dead end!
You're in maze, with walls to the E and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the N.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the W and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and E.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the W and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and E.
You're in maze, with walls to the E and W.
You're in maze, with walls to the E.
You're in maze, with walls to the E, W and S.  Dead end?
You're in maze, with walls to the W.
You're in maze, with walls to the E, W, and S.  Dead end!
You're in maze, with walls to the E and W.
You're in maze, with walls to the N, E, and W.  Dead end!
You're in maze, with walls to the E and W.
You're in maze, with walls to the W.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and E.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and E.
You're in maze, with walls to the E and W.
You're in maze, with walls to the E and W.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the W and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the E and W.
You're in maze, with walls to the N.
You're in maze, with walls to the E and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the N, E, and W.  Dead end!
You're in maze, with walls to the W and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the E and W.
You're in maze, with walls to the E and W.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and W.
You're in maze, with walls to the E and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the W and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the E and W.
You're in maze, with walls to the W.
You're in maze, with walls to the N, E, and W.  Dead end!
You're in maze, with walls to the N and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the E and W.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and W.
You're in maze, with walls to the E and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the E and W.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the E and W.
You're in maze, with walls to the N, E, and W.  Dead end!
You're in maze, with walls to the E and W.
You're in maze, with walls to the W and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the E and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and W.
You're in maze, with walls to the E and W.
You're in maze, with walls to the N and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the E and W.
You're in maze, with walls to the W and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the E and S.
You're in maze, with walls to the N, E, and W.  Dead end!
You're in treasure chamber.
You have climbed into a treasure chamber, cunningly hidden at theend of the maze.
*SPIDER*
There is the body of a large spider here.
The spider is a member of the family Arachnide.  This spider is  quite large, measuring almost 3 feet across, and covered with long,   shaggy red hair.  It glowers balefully at you, and acts as thoughit is measuring you for a coccoon.
A large spider scurries away.
There is a large spider lurking nearby.
The spider bites you, repeatedly!!.  It then scurries away, as you    feel your body rapidly turning into a stone statue!  You peer outof the eyes of the statue, and realize that you've blown it!
*GOAT HERD*
Dead goats litter the ground here!
The herd consists of 7 animals; 1 buck, 2 does, and 4 kids.  Theyare all friendly, and are begging for a handout.
There is a small herd of goats nearby.
The smell of a goat herd lingers here!
*RUFFIAN*
The corpse of a ruffian lies nearby.
There is a sinister-looking ruffian watching you!
You feel someone watching you!
There is a shout and a sinister-looking ruffian attacks you!
The corpse of the ruffian mysteriously vanishes!!
The ruffian runs away from your bloody body.  You may not have   noticed in the excitement, but he first looted your corpse!
*ARCHEOLOGIST*
The body of the archeologist lies nearby.
An archeologist runs by, waving a piece of pottery.
An archeologist runs by, carrying a pot.
An archeologist runs up, says "Etruscians!!", and runs away.
The archeologist asks "dear me, have you seen my shovel?".
The archeologist says "is this Tuesday?".
The archeologist says "if it rains, it'll ruin EVERYTHING!".
The archeologist has dropped his pot.  He says **************!!
A mild-mannered archeologist is here.  He says "are youinterested in Aramaic artifacts too?".
Book
There is a book here.
>$<
>$<
The title says "Archonian Dictionary".  Turning to a random page, we see:
T	QUIT	EXIT    i	QUI	EXI u	QU	EX   q	Q
E	SAVE    v	PAUSE   a	SUSPEND s
R	SAYe	SING    t	UTTER   t	CHANT   u	MUMBLE
D	FIND    n	WHERE   i    f
L	GO	TRAVEL    e	RUN	EXPLORE  v	WALK	PROCEED a	GOTO	CONTINUEr	TURN    t	FOLLOW
E	GET	CARRY    k	TAKE	STEAL   a	KEEP	CATCH   t	TOTE	CAPTURE
P	DUMP	DISCARD o	DROP	RELEASE r	FREE    d	OFFER
D	READ    a	INTERPRET    e	TRANSLATE    r
H	WASH    s	CLEAN   a	POLISH  w
E	WAVE    v	SWING   a	SHAKE   w
E	BURY    d	HIDE    i    h
D	LOAD    a	BURDEN  o	WEIGHT  l
E	WORTH   u	VALUE   l	APPRAISEa    v
N	DATE    r	TIME    u	TURN    t	TURNS
L	HIT	SMASH    l	KILL	ATTACK  i	BREAK	STRIKE k	FIGHT	DESTROY
E	DEPICT	PORTRAY    t	RELATE	DESCRIBE   a	EXPLAIN	DELINEATE l	EXPRESS	REPRESENT e	PORTRAY r	RECOUNT
S	FIRE	THROW   s	TOSS	PROPEL  o	FLING   t	SHOOT
*REWARD POSTER*
There is a poster on the wall.
>$<
>$<
ok...          MASS MURDER LOOSE!         Police today are searching the Vale of Archon, looking for the fiend   who is running around killing all of    the citizens.  Reward offered!!
*CRUSADER*
Rusty scraps of chain mail litter the ground here.
The body of the crusader lies here.
The Crusader is nearly 4 cubits tall, and his head is half-shavedin the style of the Normans.  He wears a chain mail over a blue  tunic, and bears a broadsword.  He is also wearing his Crusader  cloak of white, with a red cross.
The Crusader shouts "Sarasen dog!" and attacks you!
There is a Crusader here!
*DONKEYS*
There is the jawbone of an ass here!
There are dead donkeys here!
There are 3 donkeys here, all jennies.  They are very cautious, as    though they expect you to attack them.
There is a small herd of donkeys here!
This place smells like a donkey stable!
*ROMAN SOLDIER*
There are crumbling scraps of bronze here.
There is a dead Roman soldier here!
The Roman soldier is almost 4 cubits tall, but his helmet makes  him seem nearer 5 cubits.  He wears a red cloak over bronze armor,    and carries a short sword and shield.
Nebulous Nimbus shouts "Barbarian Scvm" and attacks you!
Nebulus Nimbus, a young Roman soldier, is here!
*ROMAN GOVERNOR*
A skeleton, wrapped in a few fragments of Roman armor, lies here.
The body of Felonius Caucus, a Roman citizen, is here!
The old Roman governor of this province, Felonius Caucus, is here!
Felonius Caucus shouts "Looting my estate, are you, you Hvn? Takethat", and attacks you.
>$<
Felonius Caucus hesitates and peers at you in surprise, thatyou are capable of intelligable speech!  You discover that he    dabbles in astrology, as he prophasizes:	"Look into the thing you will find here,   	to find the places where things are qveer!".    He then slowly vanishes, into thin air!!
*HORSE HERD*
A small bone, possibly from a horse, is here.
There are dead horses here!
The four horses, including the stallion, are not much larger thanponies.  They are quite disturbed, however, at your presence, andmay run off at any time.
A herd of horses grazes here.
This place smells like a horse!
*GREEK HOPLITE*
There is a battered, broken shield here, and a few faded strands of horsehair.
The body of a Greek Hoplite is here!
The Greek Hoplite (called thus from his "Hoplon", the round shield    that he carried), was considered heavy infantry.  Armored, armed with a long spear and short sword, and defending himself with hisHoplon, he was a mean fighter, and best known for the helmet he  wore, with the brightly-colored horsehair roach.
The Greek shouts "Persian oil-monger" and attacks!
There is a Greek Hoplite here!
*PERSIAN WARRIOR*
There is a dead Persian Warrior here!
There is a dead Persian Warrior here!
There is a dead Persian Warrior here!
The Persian shouts "Cowardly follower of the camp of Xenophon",  and attacks you!
There is a mounted Persian Warrior here, armed with bow and lightspear.
*BULL HERD*
An old cow bone lies here.
There are dead bulls here!
The five large bulls are rolling their eyes and pawing the groundbecause of your presence.  They look rather like auroch bulls.
There are several bulls nearby.
This place smells like a cow!
*PHOENICIAN TRADER*
There is a dead Phoenician trader here.
There is a dead Phoenician trader here.
There is a dead Phoenician trader here.
The Trader shouts "thief" and attacks you!
There is a Phoenician trader here.
*CRETIAN TRADER*
There is a dead Cretian trader here.
There is a dead Cretian trader here.
There is a dead Cretian trader here.
The trader shouts "THIEF" and attacks you!
There is a Cretian trader here.
*MINOTAUR*
The dead minotaur lies here.
The dead minotaur lies here.
The dead minotaur lies here.
The minotaur charges directly at you!
The minotaur is here!
As he falls, a jade talisman drops to the ground!
jade talisman
A jade talisman lies here.
*BALROG*
there are scaley remains here!
there is a dead BALROG here!
The balrog roars, beats it's wings, and ATTACKS!
there is a fearsome BALROG here!
*TIGER*
there are a pair of tusks here.
There is a dead saber-tooth tiger here!
The tiger roars and attacks!
There is a saber-tooth tiger here!
several diamonds
There are diamonds here!
The diamonds are quite small, and cut in an archaic fashion.
sword named "XYZZIX"
The sword XYZZIX is here!!
An ancient sword lies here, inscribed "XYZZIX"!
The sword is inexplicably drawn toward the ground!
stout shield named "SCYLD"
The shield of Amah is here!!
It is a wooden disk covered with thick rawhide and studded with  large nailheads.  In the center is a large bronze boss, shaped like   a bull's head, which is repeated in 12 smaller bosses equally spaced  around the edge.
There is an ancient shield here!
marks
There is a sack of Danish Coins (Marks) here!
The mark is a coin, originally equivalent in value to about eightounces of silver.
dinarii
There is a sack of Roman Coins (Dinarii) here!
The DENARIUS, a silver coin containing originally 10 asses, from DECEM, ten.
copper bracelet
There is a copper bracelet here.
*MAD DOG*
There is a dead dog here.
There is a mad dog here!
*LEOPARD*
There is the body of a leopard here.
It is a large, ferocious cat, with a tawny coat spotted with black.   It continues to stare expressionlessly at you; motionless, exceptfor it's tail, which twitches regularly.
There is a great leopard here, silently watching you!
*RABID BAT*
>$<
There is a rabid bat here!
shell buttons
There are old, shell buttons here.
*BANSHEE*
>$<
[From Gaelic BAN-SITH; Irish BEANSIDHE; from BAN, woman, and SITH,    fairy;  literally woman of the fairies].  In Irish and Scottish  folklore, a supernatural being, commonly supposed to take on the shape of an old woman and to fortell death by mournful singing orwailing outside a dwelling.
There is a banshee here!
*OGRE*
A dead ogre lies here!
There is an ogre here!
As it falls, something slips from a cord about it's neck!
obsidian amulet
There is an obsidian amulet here.
*GHOST*
>$<
There is a ghost here!
brass candlestick
there is a brass candlestick here.
It is an ordinary looking candlestick, except for the sticky wadsof vile-smelling black wax which cling to it.
*GIANT CLAM*
There is an empty clamshell here.
A dead clam gapes open here!
The clam is almost 4 cubits across, and weighs 800 crowns.  It isdull grey, and many small pieces of seaweed are attached to it.
Your foot is caught in a giant clam!!
*MAD PRIEST*
A dead priest lies nearby.
The mad priest protests your intrusion into the temple.
*CAVE BEAR*
A dead Cave Bear lies here.
There is a Giant, Fierce Cave Bear here!
lapis goddess
The small figure of a goddess carved in Lapis Lazuli is here.
carnelion cameo
There is a Carnelion Cameo here.
Roman standard
There is a golden Roman battle standard here!
pitcher of gold
There is a pitcher filled with gold here!
potshards
There are broken potshards here.
There is an ancient amphora standing here!
The amphora shatters at your touch!
vase of silver
There is a vase full of silver here!
bowl of silver
There is a bowl filled with silver here!
pot of pearls
There is a purple pot filled with perfect precious pink pearls here!
papyrus
There is a papyrus document here!
There is a sheet of papyrus here.
It's dirty!
It says:    vhL  ku  N  e*     a*l .nb .e  dD     cRu Ko* Ed .dn     *ef cds ld Lia     Nv* o*d bi lh*     ilE dNn ah e*S     *is dio t* wRl     Nsa a*m sD *er     e*v pDa *l Nva     dF* *ei No ile    .doA Yid ig *ip    Ei*  er  *  Ns
rotted scraps of papyrus lie here.
*MAP*
There is a map on the wall.
>$<
>$<
OK...            .         .         .         .         .         .         .                                 ####   .         VALE                 # *  #             OF                  #  * #           ARCHON                 # * #                                  #+ #            official               #+*#   .         tourist              #+*#  George's                map                 #+*#  Gorge                   ###                                     #+*#                    #####   #                                   #+*#               ######         #                                  #+ ##      ########          *    #  .                               #+*  ######              * *    ##                                  # +                 * * *   . ###                   ############ +*         * * * *     . ####              ########            +   * * * *         .#####         ####    ::      * * * * + *           . #####  .    ##      ::::: * *         +            ###      #     :::::  *             +         .##    #    :::                   +            ###      #  dunes  *                +         .     #####      #                          +                    ##A### .   #        *                 +  YOU   .                 #####     #                          +  ARE              x x x       #    #       * wadi             +  HERE .      camp x x x        #       #                           +  /    well        x x x         #     #         *               OOO+OXO     o          X x x         #   .{++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++~++++++++++++++++++++++++#     #         *               O O+O        fortress              ###      #                  town     +O         0-- --O        ######     #       *               O O+         /       \  #####      #                          +        /       ##\#  .   #        *                 +       O     ###    O     #                          +       |   ##       |     #         *                +          #         |     #                          +       | #          |     #          *    tombs      +       O #          O .    #              xx xx      +        \          /        #          *  xx xx      +       # \        /          #                       +      #    O-----O            #          x           +      #         ##                    +      #.          ###       *         +      #              ####     * *     +     #                   #####    *   +    #                         ####  * +   #                              ###*+  #    .                             #+ #                               #*#   O  buildings                # #   ## cliffs                  # * #       ++ roads                   #***#    .                            #*****#          .         .         .         .         .         .         .
bronze strip
There is an engraved bronze strip here!
There is a dirty fragment of sheet bronze strip here!
It's too dirty to read!
It says:   heXs     *iI*     ErZC    .hrZi    HtuYg    A*bXa    MH*"m    AtS**    *iaDE    Owwrh    r**ot    eD"w
lamp
there is a brass lantern here.
There is a lit lamp nearby.
The lamp is already out.
The lamp is already lit!
The lamp is now out!
The lamp is now lit!
*water*
*BANDITS*
A hail of bullets come from the rocks about you!
Frequent shots are heard nearby!
A shot passes over your head!!
A shot is fired into the air!!!
>$<
You die in a hail of bullets!!!!
*SAFE*
There is a large, sturdy safe open here!
The safe is quite large, and able to hold all sorts of things.   It's walls are almost half a cubit thick, and it must weigh almost    a thousand crowns.  It is also firmly bolted to the floor!
*MONEY*
You have no money left!
You have no money!
You have 1 gold piece left!
There is one gold piece here!
You have 2 gold pieces left!
There are two gold pieces here!!
You have 3 gold pieces left!
There are three gold pieces here!!!
You have 4 gold pieces left!
There are four gold pieces here!!!!
You have 5 gold pieces!
There are five gold pieces here!!!!!
shovel
There is a fine shovel here.
pick
There is a pick here.
canteen
There is a canteen here.
There is a canteen full of water here.
*MERCHANT*
The body of the merchant lies nearby.
The merchant is a large man, weighing 250 crowns.  In his youth  he was a noted wrestler, famed for having killed many men.  He   is now softer, and no longer a match for his cousin, but he is   still a strong opponent.  It is best to be pleasant in his  presence.
The merchant eyes you warily.
The merchant hovers over you.
The merchant says "Anything in the place, half price (in gold)!"
The merchant places it on the counter, saying what a fine deal   you've made.
The merchant yells "THIEF, THIEF";  The police sargent runs across    the street and hustle you back, where you spend an hour explaining    just what you are up to.
torch
A new torch rests here.
A burned-out torch lies here.
A burned-out torch lies here.
There is a torch here guttering out.
There is a torch flickering here.  There is a torch burning here.
There is a torch burning here.
There is a torch burning here.
There is a torch burning here.
There is a torch burning here.
There is a torch burning here.
There is a torch burning here.
There is a torch burning here.
There is a torch burning here.
There is a torch burning here.
There is a torch burning here.
There is a torch burning here.
*DIRT PILE*
>$<
someone has been digging here.
There is a mound of dirt here.
Broken pottery lies among the dirt.
Broken masonry has been dug up here.
The ground here sounds hollow!
There is a hole here!
>$<
>$<
What a stinking, sloppy mess...who dug here??
A hole has been dug to bedrock here.
Digging without tools is impractical.
There is no place to dig here!
You have broken into a chamber!
camel saddle
There is a fine camel saddle here.
rope
There is a fine, silken rope here.
There is a fine, silken rope tied here.
dead cat!
There is a VERY dead cat here!!    IT'S DEAD!!!!
*STATUE*
There is a rather foolish-looking statue here!
The statue is rather silly looking, and appears to be of someone who is trying desperately to get away from something, unsuccessfully! It is MOST lifelike!
*WITCH 1*
The body of Bewildered lies here.
There is a small witch here, named Bewildered!
As you finish her off, her big sister wanders in, and sees what  you have done.  She's upset!
*WITCH 2*
The body of Bothered lies here!
There is a big witch here, named Bothered!
At your last stroke, the third, BIGGEST, sister arrives.  She    is angry over your treatment of her sisters!!
*WITCH 3*
The body of Bewitched lies here!!
There is an angry witch here, named Bewitched!!
The BIG! brother of the three witches has just walked in.  He is really steamed!!!
*WARLOCK*
The body of Befuddled lies here!!!
There is a fierce warlock here, named Befuddled!!!
As he drops, something rolls from his pocket.
quartz crystal sphere
There is a crystal sphere of quartz here.
It is a flawless sphere of crystal, fully a third of a cubit in  diameter.  A strange half-light seems to emminate from it!
You peer into the crystal sphere, and see:
*LIONS*
There are dead lions here!
There is a pride of hungry lions here!
*MANTICOR*
The manticore is quite ripe, with ragged streamers of rottenflesh hanging off it's bones.
There is a dead manticor here!
[The word "manticore" comes from Persian MANDKHORA, man-eater; MARD,  man, and KHAUR, eater.]  In mythology, a monster with the head of a   man, the body of a tiger or lion, and the feet and tail of a dragon   or scorpion.
There is a manticor here!
*VIPERS*
Dead vipers are scattered everywhere.
There are many vipers here!
*HARPIES*
There are several dead harpies here.
There are several harpies here!
*CHIMERA*
There is a dead chimera here.
There is a chimera here!
As it falls, you discover that it was guarding something!
gold bar
There is a heavy, gold bar here!
*SKELETON*
There are shattered dry bones here.
There is an animated skeleton here, thrusting a spear at you!
THe bones crumble; the spear is dropped at your feet!
spear
There is an ancient spear here.
*CENTAUR*
A dead centaur lies here.
There is a mighty centaur here, armed with a bow!
He drops his weapon and dies!
bow and arrows
There is a bow and arrows here.
*BASILISK*
There is a dead basilisk here.
There is a basilisk here!
*MAPPE*
There be a mappe standing here!
>$<
>$<
OK...            .         .         .         .         .         .         .                                 ####   .          Ye                  # *  #            Vale                 #  * #             of                   # * #           Archun                 #+*#                                   #+*#   .                               #+*#                                   #+*#                          ###                                    #+*#                     #####   #                                   #+*#               ######         #                                  #+*##      ########          **   #  .                               #+*  ######             *****   ##                                  # +*                *****     ###                   ############ +*         ********      ####              ########            +*  ********         #####         ####            ********+***          . #####  .    ##      XX    ****        +            ###      #  ruins XX ***            +         .##    #          *               +            ###      #         *                +         .     #####      #        * wadi            +                    ##=### .   #       *                  +        .                 #####     #:      *                  +                               #    #::     *                  +       .                        #       #::::    *                  +       well                      #     #::::::   *                 O+O       o                        #   .{::::::                       ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++#     #::::     *                 O+O                              ##       #:::     *                  +           0             ######     #:      *                  +  castle  / \       #####      # dunes  *                 +         O   O  ####  .   #        *                 +   YOU----X /###     #        *                 +   ARE     O#        #         *                +  HERE    ##    #         *                +         #      #          *     tombs     +         #  .    #          *    xx xx     +        #         #          *      xx     +       #           #          *            +      #        #          x           +      #         ##         *          +      #.          ###       **        +      #              ####     ***     +     #                   #####   ***  +    #                         ####  **+   #                              ###*+  #    .                             #+ #                               #*#                               # #   ## cliffs                  # * #       ++ roads                   #***#    .                            #*****#          .         .         .         .         .         .         .
*CHART*
There is a chart on the wall!
>$<
>$<
OK...            .         .         .         .         .         .         .                                 ####            SPQR                  # *  #                                 #  * #           VALE                   # * #          ARCHVM                  #+*#                                   #+*#                                  #+*#                                    #+*#                          ###                                     #+*#                    #####   #                                   #+*#               ######         #                                  #+*##      ########          **   #                                  #+*  ######             *****   ##                                  # +*                *****     ###                   ############ +*         ********      ####              ########            +*  ********         #####         ####     OO     ********+***            #####       ##   villa OO ****        +            ###      #           ***            +          ##    #          *               +         .  ###      #         *                +               #####      #        *                 +         .          ##=###     #       *                  +                          #####     #       *                  +        .                      #    #: dunes*                  +                                #       #:::     *                  +       .                         #     #:::::    *                  +     well                        #    {:::::     *                 O+O       o                        #     #:::      *                 O+O                              ##       #::      *                  +       O---0             ######     #       *                  +       |   |        #####      #        *                 +       O---O    ####      #        *                 +     garrison###     #        *                 +           ##        #         *                +          #     #         *                +         #      #          *      tombs    +         #       #          *       xx     +        #         #          *      xx     +       #           #          *            +      #        #          x           +      #         ##         *          +      #           ###       **        +      #              ####     ***     +     #                   #####   ***  +    #                         ####  **+   #                              ###*+  #                                  #+ #                               #*#                               # #   ## cliffs                  # * #       ++ roads                   #***#                                 #*****#          .         .         .         .         .         .         .
*HYDRA*
The dead hydra lies tangled to one side.
There is a hydra here!
*SARGENT*
The body of the police sargent lies here.
The sargent is a large man, weighing 450 crowns.  He is, however,VERY tough, since he is all muscle...his strength is extremely   high.
The sargent of the police is at his desk in the corner.
The Merchant's cousin (the police Sargent) hears the ruckus, and runs across the street to see what's happening.  He gives you    one look, and immediately attacks you!!
dice!
There are dice here!
leather jacket
There is a stout leather jacket here.
chest
there is a small chest in the corner.
mithril helm
there is a mithril helmet here.
mithril broadsword
there is a mithril broadsword here, finely overworked  with enamel!
giant topaz
someone has dropped a giant topaz here!
*DELVER'S CORPSE*
the corpse of a previous delver lies here!
leather scroll
There is a fragment of leather scroll, with writing.
>$<
>$<
OK...it seems to be part of a map...         	     -:--:--:--: N:--:--:--:--:  	               I i      I     I  	   :--:--:  :  :--:  :  :--:  :  	            I     I  I        I  	:  :--:  :--:--:  :  :--:--:--:  	I     I  I     I              I  	 --:  :  :--:  :--:--:--:--:--:  	      I     I           I     I  	   :--:  :  :--:--:--:  :  :  :  	      I  I        I  I     I  I  	      :  :--:--:  :  :--:--:  :  	         I     I  I           I  	         :  :  :  :  :--:--:--:  	            I  I  I  I        I  	        -:--:  :  :  :  :--:  :  	               I  I     I  I	      :  :--:--:  :--:--:  :	         I  I     I        I	         :  :  :--:  :  :-- 	            I        I 	           -:--:--:--:--
amethyst chalice
there is a chalice here, carven of finest amethyst.
hoard of gold
there is a hoard of golden objects here!
*MIDAS*
the poor, pitiful body of Midas lies here.
Midas is here, guarding his gold!
*GIANT*
there are giant bones here.
the body of a giant lies here.
there is a fierce giant here!
*DWARF*
There are small bones here.
The body of a dwarf lies here.
There is a small dwarf here, wildly waving an axe!
mithril axe
there is a fine mithril axe here, studded with garnets.
*SHEEP HERD*
There are sheep bones here.
Dead sheep are scattered about here!
The herd consists of 9 animals; 2 ewes and 7 lambs.  They watch you   fearfully, mistrusting your intentions.
There is a small herd of sheep here.
The smell of a sheep herd lingers here.
mithril dagger
there is a mithril dagger here.
*RAT*
The mumified body of a rat lies here.
The body of a rat lies here.
There is a wild-eyed rat here!
It's covered with fleas, which jump on you!
*FLEAS*
>$<
>$<
There are many fleas here, all bearing BLACK PLAGUE!!!
THEY ALL ATTACK!!
*CASKADON*
There are rotted staves here.
There are shattered staves here, soaked in a vile brew.
There is a caskadon here.
The caskadon is a large, sleepy beast, generally armored in wooden    staves, and reeking of a vile, yeasty, brew.  He is armed with a bung-starter.
bung starter
there is a bung-starter here
*GOBLIN*
there are a few rotten scales here.
the corpse of a goblin lies here.
Goblins are manlike, but slightly smaller then men.  They use    all manner of human weapons, and have an insatiable craving for  fish.  Ususally green and scaly, some have tough, leathery hides.They have pointy ears and teeth.
The goblin lets out a screech, and attacks!
There is a goblin here, carrying something!
As he falls, he drops something.
fish
there are scales here.
there is a dead fish here.
There is a live fish flopping about here.
*ORC*
>$<
the corpse of an orc lies here.
as he falls, he drops his scimitar.Tolkien describes orcs as the troops of Mordor.  They prefer long,    cruelly-curved scimitars.  Sunlight hurts and blinds them, but they   function well on cloudy days.  They often wear armor, and rarely use magic.
as he falls, he drops his scimitar.
There is an orc here, waving a scimitar.
The orc screeches his defiance, and attacks!
scimitar
There is an iron scimitar here.
*TROLL*
there is a rock here.
the corpse of a troll lies here.
Basically rock spirits in human form, trolls are twice as big as men, and much more massive;  they are often handsome, in a craggysort of way.  Adept at most weaponry, they prefer maces, warhammers, and clubs.  Trolls are not always dumb, though few need cultivate tactics in view of their strength.  Their favorite foods    are beef and long pig.  If struck by direct sunlight, they will turn  into stone or gold.  Hovever, if they are not smashed or melted down  before midnight, they come alive again.
he drops his mace as he falls.
There is a troll here, armed with a mace.
The troll bellows like thunder, and attacks!
mace
there is a heavy, silver mace here.
*HALF-ORC*
>$<
The corpse of a half-orc lies here.
Tolkien describes the half-orc as a hybred of orc and human.They are orcish in apperance and behavior, but are unaffected    by sunlight.  If intelligent enough, they are strongly drawn to  magic.
There is a half-orc here.
The half-orc yells and attacks!
*WEREHAMSTER*
>$<
The body of the hamster lies here.
There is a man here, with the face of a weird hampster.
There is a werehamster here.
The werehamster whistles and attacks!
*WERECHICKEN*
>$<
the body of the chicken lies here.
there is a man here, with the face of a chicken.
there is a werechicken here.
Clucking furiously, the chicken attacks!
*WEREFROG*
>$<
the body of the frog lies here.
there is a man here, with the face of a frog.
there is a werefrog here.
Croaking wildly, the frog attacks!
*WEREPOLECAT*
>$<
the body of the polecat lies here.
There is a man here, with the face of a polecat.
There is a werepolecat here.
Spraying furiously, the polecat attacks!
*WEREWOLF*
>$<
the body of the wolf lies here.
There is a man with the face of a wolf here.
There is a werewolf here.
Howeling furiously, the werewolf attacks!
*WERESLUG*
>$<
the body of a giant slug lies here.
There is a giant man with the face of a slug here.
There is a giant wereslug here.
Squishing furiously, the slug attacks!
*WEREBEAR*
>$<
The body of the bear lies here.
There is a man with the face of a bear here.
There is a werebear here.
Growling furiously, the were bear attacks!
*WEREDRAGON*
>$<
the body of the dragon lies here.
There is a man with the face of a dragon here.
There is a weredragon here.
Furiously breathing fire, the dragon attacks!
golden necklace
There is a golden necklace here.
*SARACEN*
There are a few rusty rings here.
The body of a saracen knight lies here.
The Saracen is dark and wiry, being over four and one-half cubitstall.  He wears armor of steel rings, as can be seen occasionallythrough the folds of his dark-blue burnoose.  He is armed with a long, gleaming simitar.
The Sarasen shouts "Infidel Pig!" and attacks you!
There is a Saracen Knight here!
steel simitar
there is a steel simitar here.
golden flask
There is an empty flask, with a golden stopper, here.
there is a golden flask here, containing water.
there is a flask here, containing a golden potion.
Draining the potion in one draught, you suddenly feel  MUCH stronger!
As the potion hits the ground, your knees suddenly turnto rubber! you have lost some strenth!
red flask
There is an empty flask, with a red stopper, here.
there is a red flask here, containing water.
there is a flask here, containing a red potion.
Draining the potion in one draught, you suddenly feel  MUCH weaker!
A red fog appears, then clears.  You discover you are up    full strength again!
silver flask
There is an empty flask, with a silver stopper, here.
there is a silver flask here, containing water.
there is a flask here, containing a silver potion.
Draining the potion in one draught, you suddenly feel  as though you could go on forever!
A silver fog appears.  Time passes.  The fog clears.
black flask
There is an empty flask, with a black stopper, here.
there is a black flask here, containing water.
there is a flask here, containing a black potion.
Draining the potion in one draught, you suddenly feel  light-headed.  Strange and fantastical images pass before   your fevered eyes.  when you recover, you discover that a   great deal of time has passed!
Congratulations...you have just gained another day here!
green bottle
There is an empty green bottle here.
There is a green bottle full of water here.
There is a green bottle of elixer here!
drinking the elixer, you feel worse then when you got here!
The elixer bubbles up into a green foam, blanketing everything from   sight.  The foam quickly disipates, revealing...       You are up to full strength again!!
ruby medallion
There is a ruby medallion here.
There is a sullen glow from the ruby medallion
*BARROW WIGHT*
>$<
There is a barrow wight here!
Welcome to the Vale of ARCHON!!  Would you like instructions?
    You are in the desert, where great civilizations once flourished.These have all fallen, however, and now there is nothing left butruins and decay.  There are things of interest here, but mainly to thearcheologists, whose expedition is nearby.  There are rumors that the few natives, including an unwholsome band of cutthroats, have--onoccasion--found buried treasures hereabout, but their main source of  income is working for the expedition, some smuggling, and--when the   opportunity presents itself--some outright thievery.            I will be your eyes and hands while we explore the desert.  Direct me with commands.  I should warn you that I look only at the   first five letters of each word, so you'll have to enter "NORTHEAST"  as "NE" to distinguish it from "NORTH".  Furthermore, some objects    may have the same name (such as "COINS"), and so I may have trouble   distinguishing between several such objects, unless you specify which such object you are addressing (eg, "GOLD COINS").  (Should you get   stuck, type "HELP" for some general hints.  For informaion on how to  end your exploration, etc., type "INFO".)             While in the Vale of ARCHON, you are subject to certainrestrictions.  You have a tourist pass, which is good for only a limited stay.  You are subject to ordinary time, and it gets DARK at  night!  Each turn consumes 15 minutes of your visit.  And beware of   the natives (in all forms)!        -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -         This program is based on, and intended as a sequel to, the  "ADVENTURE" Game, originally developed by Willie Crowther at Stanford,and the many existing sequels, such as "CAVE" by John Kopf, and  "EXPLORE", by Michael Stimac, both at TYMSHARE.
OK
Do you really want to quit now?
I'm sorry, the last delver through here bought the last one.  Would   you come back in a week?  We'll have some by then.
Is this acceptable?
There's no point in suspending a demonstration game.
Watch That!!
There is no way to go in that direction!
I am unsure how you are facing.  Use compass points or nearby objects.
I don't know in from out here.  Use compass points or name something  in the general direction you want to go.
I don't know how to apply that word here.
I don't understand that!
I know of places, actions, and things.  Most of my vocabulary    describes places and is used to move you there.  To move, try words   like TOWN, TENT, LEAVE, ENTER, IN, EAST, WEST, NORTH, SOUTH, NE, UP   or DOWN.  I know about a few special objects, like a lamp that you    can carry.  These objects can be manipulated using some of the   action words that I know.  Usually you will need to give both theobject and action words (in either order), but sometimes I can infer  the object from the verb alone.  Some objects also imply verbs;  in   particular, "INVENTORY" implies "TAKE INVENTORY", which causes me to  give you a list of what you're carrying.  The objects have side  effects.  Usually people having trouble moving just need to try a few more words.  Usually people trying unsuccessfully to manipulate an    object are attempting something beyond their (or my!) capabilities    and should try a completely different tack.       Objects have certain "ATTRIBUTES", such as VALUE, which you can ask   about.  You can also ask about your self, by specifying no object.    You can also ask about properties of your universe, such as the TIME.      To speed the game you can sometimes move long distances with a single word.  For example, "TOWN" usually gets you to the town from any place you can see the town.  Also, note that areas are of irregular   shape and passages turn a lot, and that leaving one place going  north does not guarantee entering the next area from the south.       		GOOD LUCK!
If you want to end your game early, say "QUIT".  To suspend your game, such that you can continue later, say "SUSPEND" (or "PAUSE"or "SAVE").  To see what hours the game is normally available, say    "HOURS".  To see how well you're doing, say "SCORE".  To get a   description of how battles are resolved, say "HITS".  To get fullcredit for a treasure, you must have left it safely in the policestation, though you get partial credit for just locating it.  Youlose points for getting killed, or for quitting, though the former    costs you more.  There are also points based on how much (if any)of the game you've managed to explore.  I may occasionally offer hints if you seem to be having trouble.  If I do, I'll warn you  in advance how much it will affect your score to accept the hints.
Good try, but that is an old, worn-out magic word.
It is now pitch dark.  If you proceed you will likely fall into a pit.
You fell into a pit and BROKE EVERY BONE IN YOUR BODY!
That was intended as a rhetorical question!
I don't know that word.  I'f you wanted to quit, say "QUIT"!
Oh dear, you seem to have gotten yourself killed.  do you want meto try to reincarnate you?
All right.  By the way, I've NEVER done this before, so don't    blame me if something goes wr......     	*****  *****  *****  *****  *      *****   	*        *       *      *   *      *  	****     *      *      *    *      ****    	*        *     *      *     *      *  	*      *****  *****  *****  *****  *****        You are engulfed in a cloud of sulphurous white smoke.  Coughing and gasping, you emerge from the smoke and find....
You've DONE it AGAIN!!...shall we??
Maybe this one works better...     	  *                *         *   **   	   *******        * *       * * *  **   *  	       * **      *  *      *  *   * ****   	     **   *     *   *     *   *   *   	    **    **   *    *    *    *  **   	    *     **  **    *   **    *  **   	   **     ** **     *  **     *  **   	   **     *  **     *  **     *  ** **  *  	   ***   ** **      * **      *  *** ***   	   ** ****  **     ** **     **  **   	   **      **      ** **     **  **   	   **      *      **  *     **   **   	   **      *      ** **     **   **   	   *       *      ** **    ***   **   	   *       *     **  *     **    *    	  **       *     **  *     **    *    	  *        *    **   *    **     *    	 *         *   *     *   **     *	*           ****      ***      *      Now, let's see where we are...
Can't you be more careful?  Your clumsiness might get ME killed! Oh well, try again, eh?
I haven't used this one before. ..  ...   ....    .....          PPPPPPPPPPPP         OOOOOOOOO         OOOOOOOOO      FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFPPPPPPPPPPPPP       OOOOOOOOOOO       OOOOOOOOOOO     FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFPPPPPPPPPPPPPP     OOOOOOOOOOOOO     OOOOOOOOOOOOO    FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFPPP       PPPPP   OOOO       OOOO   OOOO       OOOO   FFF  PPP        PPPP   OOO         OOO   OOO         OOO   FFF  PPP       PPPPP   OOO         OOO   OOO         OOO   FFF  PPPPPPPPPPPPPP    OOO         OOO   OOO         OOO   FFFFFFFFFFFF   PPPPPPPPPPPPP     OOO         OOO   OOO         OOO   FFFFFFFFFFFF   PPPPPPPPPPPP      OOO         OOO   OOO         OOO   FFFFFFFFFFFF   PPP               OOO         OOO   OOO         OOO   FFF  PPP               OOO         OOO   OOO         OOO   FFF  PPP               OOOO       OOOO   OOOO       OOOO   FFF  PPP                OOOOOOOOOOOOO     OOOOOOOOOOOOO    FFF  PPP                 OOOOOOOOOOO       OOOOOOOOOOO     FFF  PPP                  OOOOOOOOO         OOOOOOOOO      FFF       WOW!!!  Where are we now....
Alas, You've done it again.  Should I give it another try?
This might be a good one ....*...**..***.****     ***********            *****              *****      *************** ** *++++++***        ***+++***          ***+++***    ** *++++++++++* *  *+******+**      **+*****+**        **++***++**   *  *+**********    *+*    *****    *****   *****      *****   *****     *+*       **    *+*      *+*    *+*       *+*      *+*       *+*     *+*        *    *+*      ****  ****       ****    ****       ****    *+*   *+*       *+** *+*         *+*    *+*         *+*    *+*   *+**     ****  *+*         *+*    *+*         *+*    *+**       *++*     *+*   *+*         *+*    *+*         *+*    *++*       * +*   *****   *+*         *+*    *+*         *+*    * +*    *      ** +*****+**    ****        ***    ****        ***   ** +******     **   ++++***    **  **      ** **  **  **      ** ** **   +++++**     ** +*****     **  **      **  ** **  **      **  **  ** +******       * +*         ** **      **  **  ** **      **  **    * +*    *       * +*          ***        **+*    ***        **+*     * +*       *++*          *+*         *+*    *+*         *+*     *+**       *+**          *+*         *+*    *+*         *+*     *+**       *+*           *+*         *+*    *+*         *+*     *+*   *+*           *+*         *+*    *+*         *+*     *+*   *+*           ****       ****    ****       ****     *+*   *+*            *+*       *+*      *+*       *+*      *+*   *+*            *****   *****      *****   *****      *+* * *+* *           **+*****+**       **+*****+**      * *+* *    *******            ***+++***         ***+++***       *******    *******              *****             *****         *******        W   W  OOO  W   W  !  !  !    W   W O   O W   W  !  !  !    W W W O   O W W W  !  !  !    WW WW O   O WW WW   W   W  OOO  W   W  !  !  ! * * * * Here we are...
NOW YOU'VE REALLY DONE IT!  I'm out of colored smoke!  You don't expect me to do a decent reincarnation without any colored smoke,do you?
OKAY, if you're so smart, do it yourself!  I'm leaving!
You are already carrying it!
I believe that what you want is right here with you.
The door is barred, and a sign says that the store is closed due to   a death in the family!
Where?
I can only tell you what you see as you move around and manipulate    things.  I cannot tell you where remote things are!
I don't know that word!
What?
Nothing happens!
Sorry, but I no longer seem to remember how it was you got here.
You can't get there from here!
It looks as though you're dead!  Well, seeing as how it's so close    to quiting time anyway, I think we'll just call it a day.
You've nothing to carry it in.
You are currently holding the following:
I can't find it in the dark!
You can't be serious!!
You can't carry anything more.  You'll have to drop something first,  in order to carry something else.
Do you want the hint?
There's a flash of silver light!        When you can see again, you look around and find...
It's starting to get dark out!
I heard a cock crow...it must be near dawn!
You cannot light such a thing!
How can you put such a thing out?
It'll have to burn itself out.
You're not carrying it!
It doesn't belong to you!
You already own it!
It doesn't belong to him!
Sell it to WHOM??
Night has fallen!
From WHOM??
Nothing happens!
Strange, nothing unusual happens!!
You're not carrying anything.
(if you leave it here, intact).
(if it weren't too heavy to move).
(if you could pry it loose).
(if you can get it to a safe place).
(if you can catch it).
(OOF!)
There is a flash of light, and you are whirled through an area ofomninous moving shadows.  Finally, after what seems like ages, you aredeposited onto firm ground again, with a strange sound in your ears:       		PPPPOOOOOOOOFFFF      You look around and see. . .
     P*O*O*F
I can't budge it...it's either too heavy, or nailed down!
Ah, morning at last!
There is no place to anchor it here!
How, by flying?
That doesn't apply to this thing.
Which of your weapons do you want to use?
That's useless!!
That's ALREADY dead!
WOW!!  I wouldn't attack THAT barehanded!
The way is blocked!  You'll have to fight it to get by!
The way is blocked!  You'll have to fight him to get by!
The way is blocked!  You'll have to fight her to get by!
They are blocking your way!  You'll have to fight them to get by!
There is something written on it!
Nothing here!
Don't be ridiculous!!
Oh-oh!!
At what?
There is no premium charged applied to the use of ARCHON... 	(other than a great deal of your own time).
This is Version 1.00 of ARCHON.
Due credit for ARCHON, (and for all Fantasy Role-Playing Games) must  go to the following:	Poul Anderson,    	Edgar Rice Borroughs,  	L. Sprague DeCamp,	Lin Carter,  	Robert E. Howard, 	Andre Norton,	Fritz Lieber,	and especially J. R. R. Tolkien.
You could have only gotten here via the shield.  Something associated with the shield will get you back.
Are you trying to get back to the first level?
ARCHON has various levels, and you are currently on level 1.  Some    things on this level have recognizable or identifiable magical   properties, which can get you to another level, if you do the    right thing.
Are you looking for more of ARCHON to explore?
The QUANAT (Persian KANAT), "...which are found in many arid areas    of suitable topography, are known as KAREZ in Baluchistan, KORAG in Sinkiang, FOGGARA in the Sahara, and Chain-Of-Wells in Cypress.    They consist of lines of wells or pits which run up hillsides or alluvial cones.  The bases of the wells in each line are connected    by tunnels to provide a continuous channel from the hillsideground-water source to the fields, where the channel comes to thesurface." 		A World Geography of Irrigation 		Leonard M. Cantor
   Hits are delivered during a fight, and are roughly based uponthe STRENGTH of various characters and objects engaged in the fight.  Certain objects can be considered as weapons, and others as shields   or armor.  Each of these things has a strength, which for you (and    your weapon), is a number DDDDA (if you ask, you would be told   "[DD]+A").  "D" is the number of (ordinary, cubical) DICE to be  rolled; "A" is the number to add to this to get the final result (Hits inflicted).  The strength of armor absorbs up to that number    of hits (and is temporarily damaged by any excess).  Opponents have   a strength N;  this is 10 times the number of dice he rolls, and TWICE the adds he!  An opponent with a strength of 10 rolls 1 dieand adds 5.       Experience counts, in that the longer you survive, the betteryou will be with weapons.  Thus the strength of weapons will be  increased by one die, for every 30 points of strength you have.     In a single combat turn, you and your weapon (if any) are rolled  seperately and added; Your opponent is also rolled for.  Now hitscancel out;  whoever has hits remaining inflicts these on the other   (except that if you have armor, it can absorb some or all of these    hits).       Hits are immediately applied to the loser's strength, weakening   him for the next turn.  If someone's strength goes to zero, he isdead!  Your opponent may decide to run away if you are giving him a   hard time, or you may kill him.  In either case, 1/3 of the strength  he has lost is PERMANENTLY applied to you!  If hits fall upon you,    you are temporarily weakened, and gain back your strength at a rate   of one point/turn.     If you would like an example of a fight scenerio, type "EXAMPLE".
   So as not to give any clues as to things you might find in ARCHON,this example is based upon elements from the original ADVENTURE game, which may or may not occur in ARCHON.  Consider:       You have strength 12 ([1]+2), and are armed with a TRIDENT ([0]+7) anda small AXE ([1]+4), and are carrying a PILLOW (1) and a CLAM (6) as  well.  You meet a DWARF (24), and do battle.  You decide to use the   AXE.      Turn 1:  You roll 1 die and get a 2, for 4 hits;  	Roll 1 die for the axe, get a 4 for 8 hits;		You have 12 hit points;    	Roll 2 dice for the DWARF, get 6(+12) for 18 hits:   	the DWARF hits you with 6 points, but your shield can		absorb 7, so it's a stand-off.       Turn 2:  You roll 1 die, and get a 6 for 8 points;	Roll a 5 on the AXE, for 9 points, a total of 17;    	The DWARF rolls 2, for a total of 14: 	You inflict 3 hits on the dwarf, who now has strength (21).         Turn 3:  You roll 1 for 5 points, and the AXE rolls 5 for 9 		points, totaling 14;  	The DWARF rolls 2 dice for 3+10 points; you inflict 1 more		hit upon him--he's now down to (20).         He decides to run away.  You have weakened him by a total of 4    points, so your strength is permanently increased by 4/3 = 1, to 13 ([1]+3) points.  If you meet him again, he will have strength (20).  Since you have had no injuries, you do not have to consumeturns "healing" before you are at full strength again.         If you had killed him, 1/3 of his strength of 25 (8) would have   augmented your strength.
Auroch:  The wild ox of Europe, now extinct.  Once roaming over  the plains and through the forests of northern Europe, they resembled the bison of the American plains, but having a less    shaggy head and neck, a lighter thorax, a heavier pelvic    development, and a longer tail.
Xenophon was a Greek General, and the author of the Anabasis, or the Narch Up Country, wherein he described the problems encountered   in leading 10,000 Greek soldiers, stranded 1500 (bloody) miles inenemy territory, back home.
Objects in ARCHON may have a number of different attributes.     They have a VALUE, a WEIGHT, and STRENGTH, all of which you may ask   about.  You yourself have the same attributes, as well as others.If you ask about an object, that is what you are told about.  If you  ask (without any object specified) you find about your own attribute.      For example, "VALUE ROPE" will tell about the rope, but "VALUE"  will tell the value of your burden.  Some of your attributes, such    as STRENGTH, depend on things you do in ARCHON, and may change with   time.  You may (temporarily) lose strength if you receive HITS ina fight, but there are ways to increase your strength.  (You willfind that increased strength will make some of your tasks easier,if not merely possible).
Good try, but that is an old, worn-     OH MY GOSH!
For a minute there, I thought I smelled smoke!
Missed!
It bounced off!
A hit!         Oh-oh...
Good shot--it's dead!
All these vermin bites have gotten to you!
I think you had better put the sword down!
It's empty!
ok...I'll wake you if anything happens.
That's cold, but refreshing!
It's not empty!
There's no soap here!
You've really klutzed out -- have you tried ADVENTURE?
You are obviously a rank amateur.  Better luck next time.
Your score qualifies you as a NOVICE class explorer.
You have achieved the rating: "EXPERIENCED explorer".
You may now consider yourself a "SEASONED explorer".
You have reached "JUNIOR MASTER" status.
Your score puts you in MASTER EXPLORER class C.
Your score puts you in MASTER EXPLORER class B.
Your score puts you in MASTER EXPLORER class A.
All of explorerdom give tribute to you, EXPLORER GRANDMASTER!
Congratulations, you have achieved the rank of DUNGEON MASTER!!
A large cloud of green smoke appears in front of you.  It clears away to reveal the dungeon master, clothed in black.  He fixes you with a  steely glare and declares, "THIS EXPLORATION HAS LASTED TOO LONG."    WITH that he makes a single pass with his dice, and everything   around you fades away into a grey nothingness.
Even the dungeon master has to wait longer than that!
I'm terribly sorry, but there are no permits being issued to visit    the Vale of ARCHON at this time.  Our hours are:
Only dungeon masters are permitted into ARCHON right now.
We do allow tourists to make short visits during our off hours.  Would you like to do that?
ARCHON is open to regular explorers at the following hours:
Very well.
Only a dungeon master may continue an adventure this soon.
I suggest you resume your exploration at a later time.
Do you wish to see the hours?
Do you wish to change the hours?
New MAGIC word (null to leave unchanged):
Do you wish to change the message of the day?
OKAY.  You can save this version now.
Are you a DUNGEON MASTER?
PROVE IT!  Say the MAGIC WORD!
Oh dear, you really ARE a DUNGEON MASTER!    	Sorry to have bothered you . . .
FOO, you are nothing but a CHARLATAN!
New hours specified by defining "PRIME TIME".  Give only the hour(e.g. 14, not 14:00 or 2PM).  Enter a negative number after last pair.
New hours for ARCHON:
Limit lines to 70 chars.  End with null line.
Line too long...RETYPE:
Not enough room for another line.  Ending message here.
Do you wish to (re)schedule the next holiday?
To begin how many days from today?
To last how many days (zero if no holiday)?
To be called what (up to 20 characters)?
Too SMALL!  Assuming minimum value (45 minutes).
Break out of this and save your core image.
Be sure to save your core-image...

