  Adventure for Univac 1100 series ASCII FORTRAN
option e,on
option f,on
option r,on
1 Introduction
 Adventure is an epic computer game in which the computer acts as your
 hands, eyes, and other senses while you explore a mysterious cave.
 Inside the cave are many treasures you can retrieve, as well as
 numerous hazards you must avoid.  It's fairly addictive, and
 quite difficult and time-consuming to get a perfect score.

 Adventure was originally devised by
 Willie Crowther at Stanford University, and later enhanced by Don Woods,
 also at Stanford.  It has been implemented on many mini- and large-scale
 computers, and was converted from DEC FORTRAN to Univac FORTRAN-V
 by Elliot S. Itkin and others at the University of Maryland
 Computer Science Center.  UOM's Univac version was used as the base
 for this Univac ASCII FORTRAN version, for which Duff Kurland
 of Information Systems Design, Santa Clara, CA is responsible.

 Beware!!!

 News of the availability of this game spreads like wildfire, and
 it has a tendency to "take over" a computer center for a month or two.

 Another word of advice:  Although you now have access to the
 game's database, and the source code, the game will be much more
 enjoyable if you refrain from detailed study of these items.
1 Revision history
2 December, 1979
 This version is more complete than the previous one.  Some of the dead
 ends now lead to new sections of the cave, and a 50 foot coil of rope
 adds a new dimension to the game.
 Two new treasures were added at this time.

 The original source of these revisions is unknown, although I suspect
 that they are again traceable to Stanford.  I obtained them from
 Bob Elman of Four Phase Systems.

 Additional local changes have been made in the area of the maze
 of different passages.  Once a player became good at the old game,
 he had no more need for this maze since the fresh batteries would
 not be needed from the vending machine.  So, we added yet another
 treasure and new rooms here to hide it in.  The maximum score is now 400.
2 January, 1980
 Several features first implemented in the Cave program have
 been retro-fitted to Adventure:

    . "All wrong" wizard mode for privileged users.
    . Multiple-command input lines ("IN. GET LAMP. OUT")
    . Multiple objects per action verb ("GET LAMP,KEYS")
    . Command string repetition ("AGAIN")
    . Blank lines ignored
    . Unsolicited "YES" or "NO" get special message.
2 August, 1980
 In this version, the code has been modified to take advantage of
 new features in FTN level 9R1.  The UPPER, LOWER, and A5TOA1 subroutines
 have been eliminated in favor of the UPPERC, LOWERC, and TRMLEN
 intrinsic functions, respectively.  The GETIN subroutine was reworked, also.
2 April, 1981
 A few minor bugs were fixed in this version:

column 4
 - The clam and the oyster were inadvertently confused in one set of
   messages.
 - "Inventory" now indents "bird in cage" under "wicker cage"
   if the bird is actually being carried.  (This required swapping
   the "cage" and "steps" vocabulary entries.)
 - If the Hall of the Mountain King was entered from the West or
   Southwest while the snake was still there, attempts to deal with
   the snake (explicitly) resulted in "I see no snake here".
column 2
1 Run-time environment
2 D-bank initialization
 If your system has execute-only file capability, it might be prudent
 to place the absolute program in such a file.  It is
 executed via @XQT <file>.ADVENTURE .  Once loaded, it checks to
 see if the user (userid, not runid) had suspended a previous game.
 This is determined by trying to assign the user's D-bank save file.
 The user's userid is taken as the qualifier, while the filename is
 configurable (MASM definition element "DEFS").  If the file
 exists, the first three words are read to pick up the time and
 date of the Adventure absolute program which was used,
 the time and date of the suspension, and the D-bank storage
 limits at the time of the suspension.  If the same absolute is
 being executed now, the user is asked whether he wants to continue
 the saved game.  If so, an MCORE$ is done to the proper D-bank
 limits, and the D-bank is restored from the user's file.  The user
 has the option of letting Adventure then delete the save file.

 If the game is not being continued following a suspension,
 Adventure then tries to
 assign its master D-bank save file.  The qualifier and filename are
 configurable, and may be found in MASM definition element "DEFS".
 If this file exists, its 3-word header is read
 to determine if the current absolute's time and date of collection
 match those of the saved program.  If so, the D-bank is
 restored from the file just as described for the user's save file.
 If not, nothing more is read from the file, and the database
 must be supplied as described below.
 "@ASG,AI" is used to assign this file, to force it to be freed
 at program termination.  (This feature was implemented by Univac in
 Exec level 36R1B).

 If neither the user's save file nor the master save file exists,
 Adventure assumes it is being executed in initial startup mode.
 In this mode, the database is read from card images (using unit 8).
 Thus, to initially set up the program, do:

          @ASG,T    DATA.
          @USE      8.,DATA.
          @DATA,IQ  DATA.          . don't forget the Q!
          @ADD,D    TPF$.DATA      . don't forget the D!
          @END
          @XQT      ADVENTURE

 The program will print "Initializing...", and when all the
 data has been read successfully, it will print "Init done".
 The user may then check out the program normally, but no copy
 of the D-bank will be made unless "magic mode" is used (see below).

 Note that if any changes are made to the program itself,
 the database card images must be re-read.
 If only the database is being changed, and the absolute is the
 same as before, the I option may be used (@XQT,I ADVENTURE) to
 refrain from restoring the D-bank from the save file, and force
 the reading of the database card images from file 8.
3 Save file attributes
 The program currently uses an
 equipment type of "F40" in its CSF$ request when cataloguing
 the D-bank save files.  The master D-bank save file is catalogued "public"
 with read/write keys so that the program may get to it when
 executed by various users.
 If your operating system enforces privacy in a manner unlike that of
 standard Univac Exec-8, you may wish to change the privacy of
 the master file such that any user may read
 it, but only wizards need be able to write in it.

 The program's vocabulary is forced through a minimal hashing
 scheme prior to being saved in the D-bank arrays.  This is done
 simply to frustrate attempts to circumvent the cave's mystery.
2 Cave Hours
 The cave may be closed during "prime time", in which case only
 wizards can play.  Short demonstration games are permitted
 during this time, however.
2 Magic mode
 This information is intended for use only by the person responsible
 for maintaining Adventure at a particular site.  This person must
 know the game's current "magic word", as well as its current
 "magic number".

 "Magic mode" is Adventure's maintenance mode of operation.
 In this mode, the program maintainer ("wizard") may modify the cave
 hours, set the maximum length of a demonstratin game, etc.
 In order to begin this mode of operation, the command "MAGIC MODE"
 must be entered as the very first move of the game (when you
 are at the end of the road).  The following dialogue will ensue:

     Are you a wizard?               <yes>
     Prove it!  Say the magic word!  <current magic word>
     That is not what I thought it was.  Do you
        know what I thought it was?  <no>
     (random 5-letter word typed by program)
     <derived 5-letter word entered by wizard, based on
        algorithm involivng above random word, current time,
        and current "magic number".>
     Oh dear, you really ARE a wizard...

 and now you are in magic mode.  The hard part is calculating the
 proper response to the random challenge.  See routine "WIZARD"
 and decipher the algorithm.  Routine "POOF" contains the initial
 definitions for the magic word, magic number, and other items.
 Outlined below are the items you can change while in magic mode.
 Once you have answered all the relevant questions, the master save
 file will be catalogued, the program's D-bank will be saved in it,
 and the program will exit.

 A utility program called "MAGIC" has been supplied with this version
 of Adventure.  It requests the current magic number, and calculates
 what the necessary 5-letter response will be for magic mode entry.
3 Cave hours
 This version of Adventure supports two classes of users:
 paying customers, and in-house users.  Each class may be assigned
 "prime time" hours during which the cave is closed except for
 short demonstration games.
 Within each user class, weekdays, weekends, and holidays may
 be given differing hours.

 The program will ask you if you want to see the current hours.
 If you answer affirmatively, the cave hours for each class of
 user are displayed.

 The program will then ask if you want to change the hours.
 If you answer affirmatively, you will be prompted for the
 necessary information for each user class.
3 Holidays
 If you wish to schedule a holiday, this may be done by specifying
 how many days hence the holiday is to begin, how many days long
 it is, and what it is to be called.  The program prompts you for
 this information.
3 Length of short game
 The maximum number of moves permitted in a demonstration game
 (during hours when the cave is closed) may be changed.  The standard
 value is 30.
3 Magic word
 The current magic word (the one you used when the program said
 "Prove it! Say the magic word!") may be altered, if desired.
3 Magic number
 The current magic number (used in the random challenge algorithm)
 may be altered, if desired.
3 Latency for restart
 When a player suspends a game, that game may not be resumed until
 a sufficient amount of time has passed.  This discourages use of
 the suspend facility as a means of holding your current score
 and position when you are about to try something that might
 adversely affect them, like getting yourself killed.
 The standard value is 90 minutes.
3 Message of the day
 A multi-line message may be entered, if desired.  This message will be
 printed each time a game begins.
1 Generation notes
 This version of Adventure was generated using PDP level 12, MASM
 level 3R1, FTN level 9R1, and MAP level 30R1, under Exec level 36R1B.
2 File names
 MASM definition element "DEFS" defines filename used for all D-bank
 save files, and the qualifier used for the master save file.
 These values may be changed for test versions of the program, etc.
 If they are changed, however, elements "INITDB", "SAVEDB", and "SAVEMA"
 must be re-assembled.

 The master save file is expected to have read/write keys as defined
 in element "SAVEMA".

 The cell ACCTNR (in "INITDB") defines the qualifier to be used for
 the user's save file.  This is currently based on the user's userid,
 which is obtained via ER INFO$.

 As shipped, the program uses ADV$$*ADV$$/READKY/WRITKY for the master
 save file, and <userid>*ADV$$ for the user save file.
 If the shipped version is to be used as-is, the master file should
 be catalogued with the above name, and copied from tape in the
 following manner:

          @CAT,P    ADV$$*ADV$$/READKY/WRITKY,F40///200
          @COPY,G   TAPE.,TEMP.
2 User classes (paying vs. in-house)
 The MASM subroutine "GETCLS" is responsible for determining
 which classification each player belongs to.  This routine will
 probably require modification at each site.  Class 1 is for
 "paying customers", for whom the cave is normally open all the time.
 Class 2 is for "in-house users", for whom the cave would normally
 be closed during business hours.

 MASM definition element "DEFS" contains a configuration parameter
 called "ISD".  If set to zero, all users will be assumed to be
 of class 1 (customer).  If nonzero, ER MCT$ will be used to
 verify that the program is being run at ISD:  if so, a special
 local ER ("PROP$") will be called for billing purposes
 if the user's account indicates he's not an ISD Systems Dept. user.

 When Adventure is generated at another site, tag "ISD" should be
 set to zero, or "PROP$" will appear as an undefined symbol.  The
 program should not actually reference it, however, because of the
 MCT check.
 (The MCT check is coded for Exec level 35R1 and beyond).
1 Pitfalls
 The following is a list of the known "odd" features used by
 this program.  Some of them may not work on all levels of
 the operating system.
2 @ASG,I
 The D-bank save files created by "magic mode" and the "SUSPEND"
 command are assigned with the "I" option to force a free of the
 file at program termination.  This is a security feature, and
 relies on the support code for it which Univac implemented in
 Exec level 36R1B.  To our knowledge, no bad effects will be noticed
 if this option is used on previous Exec levels.
2 ER BANK$ storage limits retrieval
 The D-bank save files created by "magic mode" and the "SUSPEND"
 command contain the D-bank storage limits as retrieved by ER BANK$.
 The limits are used to determine how much to write to the save file,
 and are saved in the file so that an ER MCORE$ to the proper size
 may be performed when the D-bank is initialized from the save file.
 Prior to Exec level 35, ER BANK$ returned improper information
 conerning the upper storage limit:  rather than returning
 the highest address of the last core block, it returned the
 first address of the last core block (0151000 instead of 0151777,
 for example).  If an attempt is made to execute this program on an
 Exec earlier than level 35, all sorts of errors may occur
 unless the ER BANK$ is fixed, or the code in MASM elements
 SAVEDB and SAVEMA is modified to cope with the old-style
 informatin returned by ER BANK$.
roman on
