
                      DUNGEON MASTERS GUIDE
                          Version 2.3A
                         23 October 1982



"DUNGEON" is a challenging game of skill and wit that will  spark
the  imagination of games fanatics everywhere.  Inside its depths
one will encounter treasures and terrors unknown to many a mortal
adventurer.

Installation Procedures:

     DUNGEON consists of three files  that  may  reside  anywhere
on  the  system,  although  all three should be placed within the
same group and account.  If the DUNGEON files are not to be  kept
on  PUB.GAMES, a utility program must be run to patch the DUNGEON
program file so that upon startup, it will be able to locate  and
open its text and index files.  The files are named as follows:

  DUNGEON...The dungeon program file.
  DINDX.....The index file which contains the game database.
  DTEXT.....The text file which contains messages for output.

Changing Prime Time:

     The Dungeon Master has been endowed with a  special  command
which  should not be made available to the average garden variety
adventurer.  This command allows the setting of "prime time" dur-
ing which play is not permitted.

   Invoked by:

   >NEWHRS

     This command is only recognized by the parser  if  input  as
the  first move of a new game.  Access to this feature is granted
only after a successful response to a random challenge whose sol-
ution can be found later in this text.  New hours may be  set  by
specifying  "prime  time",  during  which  the DUNGEON may not be
entered.  Prime time is entered in 24 hour "military" format, and
may only specify an "on the hour value".  For example, 1500 (3PM)
is a legal value, although 1530 (3:30PM) is  not.   The  starting
and  ending  times  are delimited by a comma.  Entering a  single
zero will act to terminate input for the current prompt.   It  is
possible to designate prime time to govern play for both weekdays
and weekends individually.  Due to the  internal  format  of  the
timestamp,  the  DUNGEON will always remain open for play between
the hours of 10PM to 7AM.  Attempting to specify prime  time  for
any  part of this  "free play" period is illegal.  As an example,
specifying 1100,1700 will close the dungeon from 11AM until 5PM.


     DUNGEON comes preset with the prime time  hours  of  8AM  to
noon  and  1PM to 5PM.  This is thought to be adequate for use in
most installations.  Caveat: Prime time should be reset only when
really necessary, since each invokation  of  the  NEWHRS  command
will  result  in  the  deletion of the current index file and its
replacement with a new version.  This implicitly means  that  the
user  of  this command should possess sufficient access rights to
delete and recreate the DINDX file.  It is recommended  that  the
prime  time be changed during such time where it will not be busy
due to a user attempting to start a game.  In any case,  it  will
always  be  prudent  to maintain a backup copy of all the DUNGEON
files lest you find the integrity of the game database in  a  un-
reconcilable position.

The Random Challenge:

     The random challenge is utilized by the  executor  procedure
of  the NEWHRS command to check for unauthorized access which may
adversely affect other adventurers.  The algorithm chosen for the
random  challenge  is  rather  complicated,  and designed to make
manual encryption tedious even with knowledge of the  procedures.
For  this  reason, a response to a challenge can be derived using
the INCANT command.  This command, whose syntax  is  shown  below
may  be  used once during the course of a game, and should not be
advertised to the player public,  although  players  encountering
the endgame will utilize it in a somewhat different context.

It will be necessary to use two terminals during  the  course  of
altering prime time; one to invoke the NEWHRS command and receive
the random challenge, and the other to invoke the INCANT  command
to obtain the response.

   >INCANT,ABCDEF
   A hollow voice replies "ABCDEF JJSVDG".

     In the above example, a random challenge (which was  printed
onto  the  terminal where NEWHRS was invoked) of ABCDEF should be
replied to by entering JJSVDG.   Be wary that in  replying  to  a
random  challenge,  lower  and  upper case are significant, and a
response in the incorrect case will produce an incorrect result.


Dungeon utility program:

As mentioned earlier, if the DUNGEON files are not be kept on the
PUB group of the GAMES account, a slightly different installation
procedure will be required before DUNGEON may be run.

  1.  Restore the DUNGEON files (DUNGEON, DINDX and DTEXT)  along
      with  the  DUNGEON  utility  program (DUTIL) to the desired
      group.

  2.  Run the DUNGEON utility program from the  group  containing
      the files.  The utility will patch the DUNGEON program file
      with the name of the group and account so that it  will  be
      able  to  locate  and  open  its  text and index files from
      anywhere in the system (subject to normal MPE file security
      conventions).   The file ID string containing the group and
      account is kept in a PB-relative array in the program file.

  3.  Delete the DUTIL program, and set any desired file security
      attributes.  An adventurer must have execute access to  the
      DUNGEON  program  file and read access to both the text and
      index files to successfully run the game. The DUTIL program
      may only be run with this latest version of DUNGEON.


Bugs in the Dungeon:

     If bugs or other inconsistancies are found during play, they
should be documented as well as possible perhaps including a hard
copy listing demonstrating the problem.  This should be sent  off
to the address below:

     HP3000 International Users Group
     Contributed Software Library
     289 S. San Antonio Road
     Los Altos, CA  94022
     Attention: Dungeon Maintenance

Troubleshooting:

     The following should be checked before assuming there  is  a
bug in the dungeon.

   Are all three files present?  (DUNGEON, DINDX, DTEXT)

   Do they all reside on the same group in the same account?

   Do the adventurers have execute access to the program file
   and read access to both the database and text files?

   Are you attempting to play DUNGEON during prime time?
   (Initially set from 8AM to 12PM and 1PM to 5PM)

   Is your target computer an HP3000 and is it plugged in?


REVIEWER'S NOTE:  To conform to the library's naming standards
                  the following file have been renamed.

                  DTEXT    =    DUNGEON.DATA
                  DINDX    =    DUNGEON1.DATA

                  To run the program you will have to rename these
                  files back to their original names and make sure
                  they are present in the same account and group as
                  the program.

                  Also, DUTIL   =  DUNGEON.DEMO.

                CORRECTIONS FOR DUNGEON VER 2.3A
                        23 OCTOBER 1982


The parser will be reset after the player  specifies  an  illegal
direction,  so  that  any additional commands entered on the same
line won't be  processed.   Previously,  players  typing  several
commands  on  a  line could easily get lost (especially in one of
the mazes) if one command in a sequence was mistyped.

The command "EAT SPIRIT" at the gate to Hades  would  generate  a
reply  of  "You can't take the #" in previous versions.  This has
been fixed via an update to the text file.

The current score will be printed during  the  process  of  being
booted  off  the  game due to a prime time violation.  Players in
the endgame will no longer have the option of saving  their  game
at this time.

A few minor typos have been corrected in the text file.

The time, date, and process ID are no longer checked by  routines
that  utilize  privileged  mode.  Instead, the clock and calendar
intrinsics are called to make the time check, and a  new  utility
has been provided to allow DUNGEON to be set up for play anywhere
on the system.  There were no problems reported with the previous
method, although it was felt the privileged mode utility routines
should be minimized for future compatibility as well as aesthetic
reasons.

Alas, all games saved under version 2.2A may not be  restored  by
this latest version.  This is necessary due to modifications made
to the text and index files  (absolute record pointers are placed
in DSAVE).

