			The SIX/FANT System

General Comments

By the SIX-days, a god created a world. Then he gave it to
others as a FANTasy.

     The SIX language was created in order to simplify the
production of interactive computer games like ADVENTURE. Two of
the important goals in its design were ease of use and
generality. The first was achieved by the use of special
syntactic forms and language features with make it easy to
define objects and locations within the world being created. The
main forms used here are the 'thing' specification and the
'verb' specification. As an example, consider the following
piece of SIX code, which defines two objects and a verb which
applies to them:

    thing (hamburger, burger):
	"name" "a big juicy hamburger",
	"taste" "scrumptious";

    thing (hotdog, weenie, "hot-dog", weiner):
	"name" "a nice fat hot-dog",
	"taste" "fantastic";

    verb (eat, gobble, devour, savour):
	noun :
	    output "Eat what?%n";
	noun (burger, hotdog):
	    full := true;
	    output "Mmm! It was good!%n";
	noun *:
	    output "I don't think it's edible.%n";

This piece of code produces 3 hash tables and 3 procedures. The
names given to the objects and the verb (including all of the
synonyms) are entered into the main dictionary (accessible under
the name 'dict') with the corresponding hash table as value.
Thus, in 'dict', the string "burger" would be entered and would
have as value a pointer to a hash table which contains the two
strings "a big juicy hamburger" and "scruptious"). A similar
hash table is created for hot-dog. The indices used can be any
legitimate value, including other tables, integers and procedure
names.

     A common index is a simple identifier. If this identifier
(word) has not previously occurred in the world description,
then it is created as a property with a new, unique value.
Properties are simply values which are all different from one
another. The only operations defined for them are comparison and
assignment. Thus in the above example, if the quotes around
"name" and "taste" were omitted, name and taste would become
properties (different ones) and they would be used in both
hamburger and hotdog. Locations are defined in exactly the same
way, except that the table entries are usually descriptions and
connections to other locations, as in:

    thing jail:
	north sherrifsoffice,
	east interrogationroom,
	climb backalley;

     Verb specifications produce hash tables whose indices are
the values used as nouns. These can be strings or can be the
names of other things or verbs, i.e. other hash tables. The
values for these entries are parameterless proper procedures
whose bodies are the statements given as part of the noun unit.
The special case with no noun given is entered under index 'nil'
and the special case of 'noun *' is entered under index 'true'
(these are values in SIX, not strings).

     Generality is provided in SIX by placing no limitations on
the facilities provided and by including as part of the world
description language a fairly complete programming language. As
an illustration of this aspect, consider the following SIX code:

    proc hanoi(from, to, using, n):
	if n > 0 then
	    hanoi(from, using, to, n - 1);
	    output "Move disk", n, " from peg ", from,
		  " to peg ", to, ".%n";
	    hanoi(using, to, from, n - 1);
	fi;
    corp;

    start:
	hanoi("left", "right", "center", 4);

This code declares a small procedure (hanoi) with 4 parameters
and no result; and provides a small main program to call it. The
entire world is simply a program to print out a solution to the
standard "Towers of Hanoi" problem with 4 disks.

     Special features for working with hash tables and linked
lists are provided. The net result is a fairly high level
programming language with some extra features for initializing
certain special types of hash tables. The SIX language is
typeless in that the compiler doesn't require types on variable
declarations, etc. Each value in a world has a specific type
associated with it. These types are part of the value and cannot
be changed. They can be checked at run-time with the 'is' and
'isnt' constructs. They types available are:

	int - 24 bit signed integers
	string - arbitrary length strings of characters
	list - linked lists of values
	tables - dynamic hash tables used to associate an arbitrary
	      value with an arbitrary index
	prop - properties, unique values most often used as table
	      indices
	proc - procedures
	nil - empty value, also called 'null'
	absent - value returned if an index in not in a table

     In use, a world description written in SIX is compiled by
the SIX compiler (currently in file SHOW:SIX) to produce a world
file. The world file contains the built up tables, strings, etc.
along with machine code for a machine (computer) called the
fantasy machine. Since we are using an Amdahl 580, not a fantasy
machine, the world file is run via an emulator, the fantasy
emulator (currently in file SHOW:FANT). Using an emulator sounds
inefficient, but because of the high cost of I/O under MTS and
the high level of many fantasy instructions, the cost is not
great. Producing actual Amdahl code instead of fantasy code
would yield significantly larger world files, which would run in
an essentially I/O bound state for most worlds. Uses of the
SIX/FANT system for other than the intended purpose could change
the statistics, but this is not considered to be important.

     Some predefined words exit in SIX which are not really
language constructs. They are:

    newline - the one-character string "%n"
    true - the integer 1
    false - the integer 0
    dict - a hash table which contains all of the thing and
	  verb names specified for the world

A world typically consists of

    'things' representing the objects in that world
    'things' representing the locations in that world
    'verb' specifications (including their 'noun' specifications)
       representing the "commands" in that world
    general utility procedures, e.g. for taking inventory,
       describing the current location, etc.
    global variables, for keeping track of such things as what is
       being carried, current score, etc.
    a main program, to start things up and keep them going

The process of producing a world is as follows:

    1) invent the world, decide what is where, etc.
    2) write down SIX code for the world (say file world.6)
    3) compile the world:
       $run SHOW:SIX scards=world.6 spunch=world.f [sprint=...]
	  [0=...] [par=notunique]
    4) run the world:
       $run SHOW:FANT par=world.f
    5) correct the SIX code as needed or desired
    6) repeat steps 3), 4), 5) until you are satisfied




The SIX Language

     The description which follows is in the form of an
annotated grammar. The productions or rules in the grammar are
of the form:

    left-hand-side : right-hand-side ;

where the right hand side is a sequence of alternatives
separated by commas. Thus the production:

    joe: 'Sam', joe 'Smith';

represents the strings:

    Sam
    SamSmith
    SamSmithSmith
    SamSmithSmithSmith
    etc.

i.e. 'Sam' followed by 0 or more 'Smith' strings. The
representation used is just a variant of the BNF form commonly
used to describe programming languages.

world: entity ';', 'entity ';' world;

    A world description consists of one or more entities,
    separated by semicolons.

entity: cons, var, thing, proc, verb, start;

    An entity is one of:
	a compile time constants declaration
	a global variables declaration
	a thing specification
	a proc declaration
	a verb specification
	a start point (main program)

cons: 'cons' word '=' cval, cons ',' word '=' cval;

word: letter, word letter, word digit;

    No limit is placed on the length of identifiers.

letter: a,b,c,d,e,f,g,h,i,j,k,l,m,n,o,p,q,r,s,t,u,v,w,x,y,z,
	A,B,C,D,E,F,G,H,I,J,K,L,M,N,O,P,Q,R,S,T,U,V,W,X,Y,Z,_;

digit: 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9;

cval: int, string, 'prop';

    The form 'cons zunk = prop' is a handy way of pre-declaring a
    property. All such properties are unique.

int: digits, '+' digits, '-' digits;

digits: digit, digits digit;

    Integers are signed 24 bit (-8388608 to +8388607).

string: '"' chars '"';

chars: char, chars char;

char: '%n', '%"', '%%', any character except " or %;

    The pair %n is an escape for newline, which is known and
    handled by the emulator (FANT).

var: 'var' word, var ',' word;

    All such variables are global, i.e. available anywhere. Note
    however, that the SIX compiler is one-pass, therefore all
    entities must be declared before they are used. All global
    variables are initialized to 'nil'.

thing: 'thing' wordlist ':' thing-spec;

worldlist: word, string, '(' words ')';

words: word, string, words ',' word, words ',' string;

    A wordlist is used to provide a set of synonyms. The string
    forms are used when a desired synonym does not conform to the
    requirements for 'word's (e.g. "treasure-chest").

thing-spec: , '*', entries;

    An empty thing specification is used to pre-declare a thing
    or verb (they are both just hash tables) so that circular
    references are possible. A proper specification must appear
    later. The '*' form is used for a thing which is specifically
    desired to be initially empty. (Presumably, entries will be
    added to it at run time.) A standard specification is a list
    of index-entry pairs for the hash table. There are no
    restrictions at run time on these, but the compiler flags
    things which would clearly be useless.

entries: tindex, tindex tentry, entries ',' tindex,
	entries ',' tindex tentry

    If the 'tentry' part is missing, then 'nil' is used.
    Duplicate tindex values are considered to be an error.

tindex: word, int, string;

    A previously unused identifier will be created as a new,
    unique property.

tentry: int, string, 'nil', 'emptylist', 'emptytable', word,
	'(' tlist ')';

    A bracketed form represents a list of those values. Order is
    preserved and duplications are ignored. Identifiers must be
    already defined constants, thing, verbs, procs or props.

tlist: , tents;

tents: tent, tents ',' tent;

tent: int, string, 'nil', 'emptylist', 'emptytable', word;

proc: proper-proc, f-proc;

proper-proc: 'proc' word '(' ids ')' ':' 'corp',
	     'proc' word '(' ids ')' ':' ppbody 'corp';

    A dummy declaration of a proper procedure has no body. Such
    dummy declarations are used to allow circular referencing
    (calling) of procedures (and things). A full declaration of
    the procedure must follow.

ids: , idlist;

idlist: word, idlist ',' word;

    Parameters to procedures are untyped (as is the entire
    language). The mechanism used is call by value, i.e. on a
    call to a procedure, the values given on the call are copied
    into the corresponding formal parameters. Note however, that
    tables and lists are represented as pointers to the
    corresponding structure, so that if a procedure modifies a
    table or list passed as a parameter, the modification will
    hold after the procedure has returned. When the procedure
    returns, any values in the formal parameters are discarded.

ppbody: statements, 'var' ids ';' statements;

    Local variables can be used within a given procedure. Such
    variables are not available outside of the procedure and
    their values are not stored between calls to the procedure.

statements: , statementlist;

statementlist: statement, statementlist ';' statement;

f-proc: 'proc' word '(' ids ')' 'result' ':' 'corp',
	'proc' word '(' ids ')' 'result' ':' fpbody 'corp';

fpbody: expression, statementlist ';' expression,
	'var' ids ';' expression,
	'var' ids ';' statementlist ';' expression;

    The result of a function procedure must be placed just before
    the closing 'corp' with no intervening semicolon (ALGOLW
    style of return of procedure result.) Procedures can recurse up
    to the interpreter stack limit (currently 1 megabyte).

verb: 'verb' wordlist ':' noun, 'verb' ';' noun;

    A verb specification includes one or more synonyms for the
    verb and one or more nouns to go with this verb.

noun: 'noun' wordlist ':' statements, 'noun' ':' statements,
	'noun' '*' ':' statements;

    A verb specification creates a hash table, which is entered
    in the main dictionary (dict) under all of the words or
    strings given as synonyms for that verb. the entries in the
    table are the strings or tables which represent the various
    nouns in the verb. The values in these entries are
    parameterless proper procedures whose bodies are the
    'statements' part of the noun specifications. The special
    form '*' is entered under the index 'true' (the integer 1)
    and the special form with no name is entered under the index
    'nil'.

start: 'start' ':' statementlist;

    The start point simply provides the main program for the
    world. All worlds must have one and only one start point.

statement: for, while, ifstatement, assign, listop, tabdel,
	   callstatement, output, 'stop';

    The form 'stop' causes the world to terminate. An implicit
    'stop' is added to the end of the 'start' section.

for: 'for' word 'in' expression 'do' statements 'od';

    The expression must be a list. The word (a variable) is given
    each of the elements of the list as value and the statements
    are executed once for each value. In effect, the word scans
    down the list.

while: 'while' bool 'do' statements 'od',
       'while' statementlist ';' bool 'do' statements 'od';

    The while statement is the basic looping construct in the SIX
    language. The condition is executed and, if the bool
    evaluates to a 'non-empty' value, the body is executed. This
    cycle continues until the bool yields an 'empty' value.

ifstatement: 'if' bool 'then' statements elifss 'fi',
	     'if' bool 'then' statements elifss
		'else' statements 'fi';

    The if statement is quite standard. The form
	if A then B elif C then D elif E then F else G fi
    is equivalent to the form
	if A then B else if C then D else if E then F else G fi fi
	fi
    etc.

elifss: , elifss 'elif' bool 'then' statements;

assign: dest ':=' expression;

listop: expression '<+' expression, expression '<++' expression,
        expression '<-' expression;

    The expression on the left must be a list. The meanings are:
	<+ - append the element onto the list
	<++ - prepend the element to the list
	<- delete the first occurence (if any) of the element
	    from the list

tabdel: expression '--' expression;

    The expression on the right is deleted as an index from the
    table on the left. If the index is not present, nothing
    happens.

callstatement: value '(' expressions ')';

    The expression (value) must yield a procedure and the number
    of parameters should match the number required by the
    procedure.

expressions: , expressionlist;

expressionlist: expression, expressionlist ',' expression;

output: 'output' expressions, 'mts' expressions;

    The values of the expressions are output in turn. Currently,
    only strings and integers can be output. The newline
    character in a string indicates the end of an output line and
    another line is started. Output operates somewhat like a text
    formatter in that sequences of nonblanks will not be broken
    up over a line boundary; instead, the line will be output
    short and the word will appear on the next line. Sequences of
    2 or more blanks are treated as a unit, i.e. not all blanks
    are treated as possible break points. The 'mts' form operates
    the same as 'output', except that each record assembled is
    passed to MTS as a command to be executed. The command cannot
    be RUN, LOAD, START or UNLOAD, as these will cause FANT to be
    unloaded, and the 'mts' statement will never return. One
    common use is to use the RESTART command, with MTS
    input/output units SCARDS and/or SPRINT reassigned. This
    allows the source for 'input' and the destination for
    'output' to be changed, allowing things like save/restore and
    logging. SHOW:ADVENTURE uses this technique to do
    save/restore, and score logging has been done using a similar
    technique.

dest: word, value '.' value, value '..' value;

    The operators '.' and '..' are table lookup operators. The
    expression on the left is a table and the expression on the
    right is the index. If the index is not in the table, then
    '.' will return the special value 'absent', but '..' will
    insert the index into the table and give it value 'nil'. When
    a value is assigned to such an expression, the value is put
    into the table as the value associated with the index.

bool: expression;

    Any type of expression can serve as a boolean (true/false)
    value. The most common values are the pre-defined constants
    'true' and 'false', representing the integers 1 and 0
    respectively. A true value is any nonempty value of that
    type. Thus an empty list, an empty table, a null string, nil
    and the integer 0 are all treated as false.

expression: andexpr, expression 'or' andexpr;

andexpr: notexpr, andexpr 'and' notexpr;

    The boolean operators 'and' and 'or' are programming
    constructs. They will not evaluate their second operand if
    their first operand is sufficient to determine the final
    result.

notexpr: boolexpr, 'not' boolexpr;

boolexpr: catexpr, catexpr comp catexpr, catexpr typetest type,
	catexpr 'in' catexpr;

    The 'in' operator allows lists to be treated somewhat as
    sets. It returns true only if its left-hand argument is an
    element of the list which is its right-hand argument.

comp: '<=', '<', '=', '>', '>=', '~=';

    Magnitude comparisons are meangingful only for integers and
    strings. Comparisons of tables and lists are identity
    comparisons, e.g. two tables expressions are equal only if
    they refer to the same table.

typetest: 'is', 'isnt';

type: 'int', 'string', 'nil', 'absent', 'prop', 'list', 'proc',
	'table';

    Type checking is done at run time since a given expression
    can yield different types at different times. The result of
    a typetest is true or false.

catexpr: addexpr, addexpr '$' addexpr;

    The '$' operator represents string concatenation. Both
    operands must be strings, and the result is a string obtained
    by adding the right operand onto the end of the left operand.

addexpr: multexpr, addexpr addop multexpr;

addop: '+', '-';

multexpr: umexpr, multexpr multop umexpr;

multop: '*', '/', '%';

    Arithmetic operators are valid only for integers. The
    operator '%' is the modulo or remainder function.

umexpr: dcdexpr, lenexpr, '-' umexpr;

    Unary negation works only for integers.

dcdexpr: source, '#' source;

    The '#' operator takes a string argument and converts it into
    the equivalent integer. The representation given can include
    a sign. If the entire string cannot be converted into an
    integer, then nil is returned.

lenexpr: source, 'length' source;

    The 'length' operator yields the length of it's string
    argument.

source: callexpression, substrexpr, value;

callexpression: callstatement;

    Procedure calls are syntactically alike, even though one form
    is an expression and one is a statement. If the procedure to
    be called is other than just an identifier, i.e. the compiler
    cannot determine if it is a proper procedure or a function
    procedure, then it is assumed to be a proper procedure.

substrexpr: value '(' value ':' value ')';

    This form is used to take a substring of a string. The two
    values in the brackets must be integers, which specify the
    starting point and the length of the substring, respectively.
    The first character in a string is assumed to be at the 0'th
    position.

value: dest, int, string, 'nil', 'emptytable', 'emptylist',
	'input', '(' expression ')', '?', ifexpression, 'csid',
	'project', 'time', 'date';

    The form 'emptytable' produces a new, empty table at run
    time. Similarly, 'emptylist' produces an emtpy list. '?'
    yields a random integer between 0 and 9999 inclusive. 'input'
    causes a new input line to be read from SCARDS and returns a
    value as follows: 'absent' on end-of-file, an empty list if
    the input line contains no non-blanks, else a list of the
    sequences of non-blanks (words) on the input line. The forms
    'csid', 'project', 'time' and 'date' produce strings
    representing, respectively, the player's signon id, the
    player's signon project, the current time, and the current
    date. These items are useful for score logging.

ifexpression: 'if' bool 'then' expr elifse 'else' expr 'fi';

    If expressions must have an else part.

elifse: , elifse 'elif' bool 'then' expr;

expr: expression, statementlist ';' expression;

    The alternatives in an if expression can contain several
    statements followed by the final expression. This type of
    construct (block expression) is quite useful but should not
    be overused as it can lead to confusion.

     Two features of the language as implemented are not
described in the above grammar. Any sequence of characters not
including '/*' and '*/' which is delimited by '/*' and '*/' is a
comment and is ignored by the compiler. Comments can be nested,
i.e. a comment entirely within another comment is recognized and
treated as a nested comment. Thus any piece of code can be
commented out by surrounding it with '/*' and '*/', regardless
of whether it contains any comments or not. A second feature
concerns the use of the string break. The compiler will accept
input lines of any length, but for appearance sake, it is
desireable that long string constants be broken up into smaller
pieces which fit on one listing line and can be indented
appropriately. The SIX compiler handles this as follows: if the
last item on a given line is an explicit string constant and the
first item on the *NEXT* non-empty line is also an explicit string
constant, then the two are concatenated at compile time to yield
a single string constant. This process is carried out as often
as necessary, thus long strings can span several input lines and
still be correctly indented.

Using the SIX/FANT System

     The current version of the SIX compiler (SHOW:SIX)
references I/O units as follows:

	SCARDS - source world input
	SPRINT - listing and/or error messages
	SPUNCH - world file output (if no errors)
	0 - optional fantasy code listing

If SPRINT is explicitly specified on the run command or the
compilation is done in batch mode, a full listing is produced on
SPRINT. Fantasy addresses on the listing are decimal addresses
of that code in the fantasy machine (useful for debugging on
crashes). Program and data share the same contiguous memory, and
no relocation is done. If a full listing is not produced, then
erroneous lines (if any) and their associated error messages,
will be listed on SPRINT. If the compilation is successful, the
resulting world file will be output on SPUNCH. On each run, the
return code (RC) from the compiler is the number of errors
detected in the compilation.

     If logical unit 0 is assigned when running the compiler, a
listing of the fantasy machine code generated for the program
portions of the world is produced on unit 0. This listing is
mainly used for debugging the compiler and emulator, but curious
users may wish to examine it for small worlds (e.g. the sample
world for "Towers of Hanoi"). The listing of the code may also
be of some use when debugging a world since it locates the
particular instructions more closely. Because the compiler
operates in one pass, forward referencing instructions in the
listed code will not be correct (the addresses are shown as 0).

     The current version of the emulator (SHOW:FANT) references
I/O units as follows:

	SCARDS - input for the 'input' construct
	SPRINT - output from the 'output' statement
	PAR= field - name of the world file to "run"

It is not possible to reference any other I/O units through the
emulator. Reassigning units SCARDS and SPRINT can be used in
many cases. This is done using the 'mts' statement, as explained
previously.

Architecture of the Fantasy Machine

     The fantasy machine is a pure stack machine. It has no
registers other than the program counter (PC) and the stack
pointer (SP). All data values are 32 bits long, including an 8
bit tag. Stack space is independent from program and data space.
The stack grows down. Many of the instructions are single byte
opcode-only instructions which perform some operation on the top
two stack elements. In all cases, the top stack element is the
second or right-hand operand for the given operation. Two
addressing modes are available: SP relative - a 24 bit offset
from SP gives the address of a value (or slot) on the stack
(used for local variables), and absolute - a 24 bit address
indicates a global variable, a procedure entry point, an
instruction address, a list, a table, or a string. The compiler
keeps track of the stack contents within each procedure, so that
no base register is needed to address local variables and
parameters.

     Procedure calls operate as follows: 1) The procedure entry
point (properly tagged) is pushed onto the stack. This entry
point can be the result of an arbitrary expression. 2) The
parameters to the procedure, if any, are pushed onto the stack.
3) A call instruction is executed. The call instruction contains
a 24 bit count of the number of bytes of parameters pushed onto
the stack, so that the procedure entry point can be found. The
call then pushes the byte count as an untyped value onto the
stack, followed by the return address. Finally, the entry point
address is loaded into the PC. 4) If the called procedure
requires any temporary variables, it executes a pshg (push
garbage) instruction to reserve stack space. 5) Two different
procedure return instructions are provided; one allows for a
returned result left on the stack, the other does not. Both
contain a 24 bit count of the temporary space used by the
procedure, and both pop all of the parameters and the procedure
address, etc. from the stack. The retf (return from function)
instruction leaves the returned value (left on top of the stack
by the function body) at the new top-of-stack position.

     There are 3 instruction formats in the fantasy machine:

    1) 1-byte - a 1 byte op-code only
    2) 4-byte - a 1 byte op-code and a 24 bit offset, count or
	absolute address
    3) 5-byte - a 1 byte op-code, a 1 byte tag and a 3 byte
	fantasy value (i.e. op-code and tagged value)

     The following list of the fantasy instructions is arranged
as: mnemonic opcode-dec(opcode-hex)length name - description

hlt	0(00)1 halt - end of emulation
call	1(01)4 call - call a procedure
retp	2(02)4 return from proper procedure
retf	3(03)4 return from function procedure
in	4(04)1 input - input line from SCARDS is read and
    converted into a list of strings or absent. Result is
    pushed onto the stack.
out	5(05)1 output - top element of stack is popped and
    added to the output buffer. The element must be a string
    or an integer. See description of SIX output statement for
    more details.
tlav	6(06)1 table lookup and add, value - top two elements
    are replaced by value from the table. If the index is not
    found, nil is entered and pushed.
tlaa	7(07)1 table lookup and add, address - push address of
    value slot in table (for use in assigning to it)
tlv	8(08)1 table lookup, value - lookup and push value, if
    not found, then push absent.
tla	9(09)1 table lookup, address
tdl    10(0a)1 table delete - return no result
lin    11(0b)1 list in - test for list membership
lap    12(0c)1 list append
lpre   13(0d)1 list prepend
ldl    14(0e)1 list delete
add    15(0f)1 add
sub    16(10)1 subtract
mul    17(11)1 multiply
div    18(12)1 divide
rem    19(13)1 remainder
neg    20(14)1 negate
pop    21(15)4 pop - pop to absolue address
popi   22(16)1 pop indirect - pop top value to address (second
    stack value)
popr   23(17)4 pop relative - pop to given offset from SP
psh    24(18)4 push - push from absolute address given
pshaa  25(19)4 push address absolute - the given absolute
    address is pushed
pshi   26(1a)1 push indirect - not currently used
pshr   27(1b)4 push relative - push from given offset from SP
pshar  28(1c)4 push address relative
pshc   29(1d)5 push constant
pshg   30(1e)4 push garbage - decrement SP by count
tst    31(1f)1 test - set condition code and pop value
cmp    32(20)1 compare - set condition code and pop top 2
    values
beq    33(21)4 branch on equal - uses 24 bit branch address
bne    34(22)4 branch on not equal
bge    35(23)4 branch on greater or equal
blt    36(24)4 branch on less than
ble    37(25)4 branch on less or equal
bgt    38(26)4 branch on greater than
bnil   39(27)4 branch on nil - is in condition code
bint   40(28)4 branch on integer
bstr   41(29)4 branch on string
blst   42(2a)4 branch on list
bprc   43(2b)4 branch on procedure
btab   44(2c)4 branch on table
bprp   45(2d)4 branch on property
bnnil  46(2e)4 branch on not nil
bnint  47(2f)4 branch on not integer
bnstr  48(30)4 branch on not string
bnlst  49(31)4 branch on not list
bnprc  50(32)4 branch on not procedure
bntab  51(33)4 branch on not table
bnprp  52(34)4 branch on not property
bab    53(35)4 branch on absent
bnab   54(36)4 branch on not absent
bun    55(37)4 branch unconditional
for    56(38)4 for - start of a for loop. Stack is assumed to
    contain: address of 'for' variable, list to scan (top
    element). If list is empty, branch to given address
    (matching rof).
rof    57(39)4 rof - end of a for loop. Moves list pointer
    along the list; if the list becomes empty, pops two values
    from stack, else branches to given address (just after
    matching for).
rand   58(3a)1 random - pushes random integer betwen 0 and
    9999 inclusive
dec    59(3b)1 decode - replaces top element (string) by
    equalent integer or by nil, if there is no equivalent
mts    60(3c)1 - string on stack is executed
csid   61(3d)1 - user's signon id is pushed
proj   62(3e)1 - user's signon project is pushed
date   63(3f)1 - current date is pushed
time   64(40)1 - current time is pushed
subst  65(41)1 - substring operation
cat    66(42)1 - string concatenation
len    67(43)1 - length of a string



Suggested Arrangement of World Source Files

     The various portions of world source files intereference
each other quite heavily. For example, many verbs will only be
effective in certain locations. Similarly, the locations
reference the objects to produce the initial distribution of the
objects. With a one pass compiler, (the cost of compilation
would probably double for a multipass or full structure building
compiler) all names (words) must be declared or specified before
being used. Because of this, it is important to consider the
overall arrangement of the world source file. One suggested
arrangement is as follows:

    1) special constants - These are values which can be used to
       "tune" the world for better performance. By using a
       compile-time symbol for these values, only one change need
       be made in order to change all occurrences. In keeping
       with a highly readable convention used in the UNIX
       operating system, it is suggested that these constants be
       represented by all upper case identifiers.
    2) global variables - These are referenced by many procedures
       and verbs, so should occur fairly early. Since variable
       declarations do not depend on any other symbols, they can
       be placed before all other symbols with no fear of conflict.
    3) the objects in the world - These are not often dependent
       on anything, and so can appear early. Both locations and
       verbs are dependent on the objects.
    4) predeclaration of locations - Most worlds will have
       reverse paths corresponding to most interconnections
       between locations, so that there will be a large amount of
       interreferencing among the locations. Careful arrangement
       and a minimum number of predeclarations can be used, but
       this leads to inflexibility. The safest method seems to be
       to predeclare all locations. That way any rearrangement
       can be done easily. No storage overhead is involved in
       this since all things have an indirection word and it is
       this indirection word only which is generated when a
       location thing is predeclared.
    5) things and routines used in the locations - Many paths or
       locations in a world will have special conditions or
       actions associated with them. This can be done by having
       the entries for that connection in the locations be
       procedures instead of other locations. The routine or verb
       which handles moving from one loation to another can
       recognize the type of the destination (via an is/isnt
       check) and call the routine instead of trying to move to
       it. This method has been used quite successfully in the
       first four worlds.
    6) the locations in the world - The locations are not much
       dependent on the verbs of the world (except perhaps to
       avoid extra properties to represent directions), but the
       verbs can be highly dependent on the current location and
       can affect the description or contents, etc. of locations;
       hence the locations should probably appear before the
       verbs.
    7) things and routines used in the verbs - Routines used here
       will usually be those which implement a task common to
       several verbs. Things would be for special purpose, such
       as translating character form to integer form (as in
       "one" => 1).
    8) the verbs in the world - There is not likely to be much
       intereferencing of verbs, but if there is, and reordering
       will not suffice, verbs can be predeclared as things.
    9) things and routines needed by the main program - This
       would include things such as a homonym table, which
       translates from a verb form to the appropriate noun form
       (e.g. translating "cross" to "crucifix" when "cross" is a
       valid verb and has appeared in the noun position). Other
       possibilities are a list of words to be ignored, special
       parsing procedures, and procedures for handling events
       which occur depending on the occurrence of any input.
    10) main program - This will probably be a group of
       initializations followed by a while loop for commands.

Further Comments

     The sample world (SHOW:EX.6) is fairly straightforward, but
does illustrate many of the techniques that can be used. It
follows fairly closely the suggested ordering given above. All
of the variables used have names which begin with an underscore.
This is not necessary, but is done so that there will be no
possible conflict between variables and possible synonyms for
objects and verbs. Several useful conventions are established in
this world.

    1) Each object has, indexed under the property '_name', a
       string which names the object.
    2) Routines used in locations all start with an underscore,
       so that they are readily distinguishable from locations.
    3) Locations contain a short name ('_name') and a more
       complete description ('_description') which are used after
       a move to describe the current location. The two are
       separated to allow for a brief mode in which only the name
       is given, although this is not implemented in the sample
       world.
    4) All locations contain a list ('_contents') of the objects
       at that location. The list is present even if it is empty.
       (This saves checking for it.)
    5) Links between locations are indexed by the verb which
       would pass over that link (or call that procedure for a
       special action.)
    6) All verbs have a 'noun *:' form which gives them a proc
       under index 'true'. This is used to ensure that the first
       word of an input command is a verb.
    7) The 'noun :' form, if present, is used to represent that
       verb with no noun given.
    8) The "parser" used is more general than is needed by the
       sample world, but is shown as an example of a workable
       parser for one and two word commands. The verb with no
       noun is indexed under 'nil', so _nounstring (contains the
       string used as the noun) is initialized to nil (line 281).
       The 'for' loop of lines 283-291 is just a very ugly way of
       picking out the first and second input words. The first
       word is immediately looked up in 'dict', the main
       dictionary produced by the compiler, to yield the verb of
       the command in _verb. The string of the noun, if present,
       overrides the nil in _nounstring. The noun is looked up
       (will often not be found) and the result is left in _noun.
       If the given verb is not valid (was 'absent' in dict) then
       one of 2 messages is given. If it was found, but didn't
       have a proc indexed by 'true', it must have been other
       than a legal verb (see 6) above). The order of precedence
       for selecting which of the cases in the verb is: the
       actual string of the noun given, the noun given (the table
       after lookup), then the default ('noun *:') form.
    9) Actions which can be triggered by any input command can be
       checked for either before or after handling the command
       itself. It is probably best if an illegal command have no
       effect whatsoever.

     Many variations from the conventions used hare are
possible. Some possibilities, many of which have been used, are:

   - descriptions could be lists of strings or could be
	procedures, thus allowing changes to descriptions (e.g.
	removing the sign in "mansion") to be more easily done.
   - flags can be placed in verbs by using a noun which is a
	string which cannot be entered as a noun in a command
	(i.e. one with a blank in it) with no statements (i.e. an
	empty procedure) following it. This technique was used in
	"mansion" to decide which verbs can be done in the dark.
   - similar flags, etc. can be used in locations or objects
	e.g. is this location dark? what is the value of this
	object?
   - alternate command forms can be accepted, e.g. "zorp" uses 3
	word commands and has a list of "ignore words" which can
	occur anywhere in the input command.
   - certain often repeated tests in verbs can be done once, in
	the "parser". A possibility here is a procedure in the
	verb which returns true or false to indicate whether that
	verb can be applied at all in the current situation. For
	example, burning something requires the presence of fire
	(e.g. a campfire, matches, stove) regardless of what is to
	be burned. Other tests, such as when opening or closing a
	door, are similar in several situations, but refer to
	different conditions to test the validity. If these
	conditions are stored in, say, the location of the door,
	then a common test can handle many of the cases.

Bugs

     At the time of this writing, two bugs are known to exist in
the SIX/FANT system. The first is not a major problem, and the
second only occurs if PAR=NOTUNIQUE is specified. The bugs are:

    1) Tables are of dynamic size; they are expanded as needed.
       The left-to-right evaluation of assignment statements
       leads to a problem with the following:

	    tab.x := tab..y

       (This simple example would never occur, but it illustrates
       the point, which could happen as a result of some function
       call, etc. in a right-hand side expression.) The left-hand
       side ('tab.x') is evaluated first, yielding, on the stack,
       an address to pop the right-hand side result into. If the
       right-hand side cause table 'tab' to expand and move, the
       stacked address becomes invalid and the pop into it will
       not have the desired effect. By splitting the statement

	    temp := tab..y;
	    tab.x := temp

       the problem is removed.
    2) The compiler generates only one copy of a given string
       constant. (This can save a lot of space.) The emulator
       will attempt to re-use any string which is being replaced
       by an assignment to the entry or variable pointing to the
       string. Thus, in the following sequence:

	    thing t:
		a "hello";
	    start:
		t.a := "good-bye";
		t.a := "hello";

       the two references to "hello" use the same copy of the
       string descriptor and buffer. The assignment of "good-bye"
       to a slot (t.a) previously referring to "hello" will
       result in the single copy of "hello" being discarded. The
       second use of "hello" will then be invalid (in practice, a
       crash can occur at some much later point, or the string
       being replaced will become identical to its first
       replacement.) The problem only occurs with things and is
       avoided by initializing such fields at run time, so that a
       copy of the string is made. Note that the problem only
       occurs when a string which is used in a thing is replaced
       by some other value and is also used elsewhere in the
       world. To minimize the effect of this problem, the
       compiler has been changed so that separate copies of
       string constants are produced for each occurence of the
       constant. This can produce larger world files, but is not
       terribly inefficient. If you are sure that your world will
       not have this problem, you can specify PAR=NOTUNIQUE, and
       the compiler will only generate one copy of each string
       constant.

A final note:

     Changes, whether to correct bugs or to add features, will
NOT be made to either SIX or FANT. The reason for this is that
the language that the two were written in no longer exists
anywhere. Therefore, in order to make changes the source code
would have to be translated into some other programming
language.

Worlds Written Using SIX/FANT

     Several adventure-type worlds have been written using the
SIX/FANT system. The major ones are listed below. Note that many
of these worlds were written by people who are no longer at the
U. of A., so the authors are not available for questions. Others
were written a few years ago, so the authors may not be able to
answer questions without studying the source for a while, so
please try to answer your questions yourself before asking the
authors.

EX - this small world, the source to which is in SHOW:EX.6, was
    the first world written using SIX/FANT.

MANSION - This world, written by Chris Gray, grew out of EX. It
    is about the same size and complexity as ADVENTURE, but
    hasn't been updated to include save/restore. It has a few
    interesting features (e.g. an operating submarine, complete
    with a fairly large subterranean waterway), but has a few
    rough spots. MANSION can be run via '$SO SHOW:MANSION'. Hints
    - oil the hatch twice (extra oil in gazebo on island); doors
    must be unlocked when locked before you can open them; jump
    over the poisonous stream at one of the narrow spots; when
    you know the combination, use 'dial' to open the safe; don't
    drop the candle; try shouting in the whirlpool cavern; the
    casket contains a big hint; the troglodyte has a weakness.

ADVENTURE - This is the granddaddy of all adventures, the first
    one around, and still one of the most popular. The version in
    SHOW:ADVENTURE is a rewrite of the PL/I version first put
    onto MTS by Ron Senda. It is a lot cheaper than that version,
    and has a few extra locations and treasures, which were taken
    from a UNIX version. It is a fairly accurate copy of the
    original, so any complaints you may voice will fall on a deaf
    ear. This is the only adventure on MTS which currently has a
    save/restore facility. I put this in to show that it could be
    done, but no-one else has taken the hint and added it to
    their worlds. ADVENTURE can be run via '$SO SHOW:ADVENTURE'.
    Hints - the dracon CAN be killed; go for the pirate's chest
    early, he starts out where you find his chest; leave the
    magazine in Witt's End for 3 points; crossing the troll
    bridge (across and back) can be done with no permanent cost;
    you must not buy extra batteries if you want to get into the
    end game; read the magazine for some hints about the new
    stuff added; in the Plover Room, say all of the words that
    seem relevant to that room (there IS stuff in the Dark Room).

ZORP - No, this isn't the famous ZORK/DUNGEON. Douglas Martin,
    who wrote ZORP, picked the name before we had even heard of
    ZORK. This adventure involves getting into a medieval castle,
    progressing around in it, and further adventuring in a
    Wizard's tunnels beneath it. Acess ZORP via '$SO SHOW:ZORP'.
    Hints - many things depend on other things being done first;
    think devious when dealing with the inhabitants; most objects
    have a use.

ODYSSEY - This is Doug Martin's second world. It is set in
    ancient Greece, and deals with their mythology. Knowledge of
    that mythology is not needed to play the game (a convenient
    book gives more information than you will need). I personally
    enjoyed this one; it has several puzzles which can be solved
    by experimentation and thinking. When you think you have
    finished, (you've brought the apple back), you have a
    surprise in store. Access ODYSSEY via '$SO SHOW:ODYSSEY'.

CASTLE - This is Doug Martin's 3rd SIX/FANT world (he loves
    writing games). This one has lots of subtle hints, including
    a couple of nice poems. Some strange and mystifying things
    happen in CASTLE, but they all make sense when you have all
    of the information. Access CASTLE via '$SO SHOW:CASTLE'.

FORTRESS - This world was written by Mike Jackson.
    Unfortunately, it was never completed. It is quite large, and
    has several interesting ideas (e.g. the magic), but it is
    frustrating to not be able to complete it. Access FORTRESS
    via '$R DEMO:FORTRESS'. Hints - leave treasures in the tennis
    court.

THIS - This unimaginative name conceals the wierdest adventure
    of the lot. In THIS, there is no way to predict what you will
    find next, or what will happen to you. You will meet
    creatures from popular Science Fiction stories, solve
    puzzles, pray to gods, crack safes, survive the unsurvivable,
    etc. This world was unavailable for some time since it needed
    cleaning up, censoring, etc. It has, however, finally been
    reincarnated under SHOW:THIS. To run it, say '$SOU
    SHOW:THIS'. The latest source is available on tape if someone
    wants to tackle the job of completing it (warning - you will
    need considerable MTS funds, along with patience and
    programming skills to complete it - the source is 7500 lines
    of not-so-good code).

SPACESHIP - This adventure, written by Steve McKinnon, is quite
    different from the others in that each location has more than
    one description (depending on which way you are facing), and
    the program keeps track of which way your head is turned, and
    which way you are facing. For example, to start off, you must
    'turn left' to face the door of the vault, 'go forward' -
    twice, 'look up' to see the little hole in the ceiling, 'up'
    to go through the hole ('move up' doesn't work, you can only
    move left, right, ahead or around (back)), then 'look ahead'
    to face forward. You will soon be exploring a spaceship (with
    some urgency), and will eventually be able to control it,
    land on a couple of other planets and bring treasures back to
    the vault. SPACESHIP is accessed via '$SO SHOW:SPACESHIP'.

LABYRINTH - This adventure, written by Rob Symonds, never got to
    be very large, but had some good points, nonetheless. It is
    not currently available on the system.

DEMO - This adventure is fairly small, but relatively easy to get
    along with. It was written by Chris Gray and Doug Martin for
    one of the UACS Open Houses. The source for it is permitted
    under SHOW:DEMO.S, and the world itself can be run via '$SO
    SHOW:DEMO'. This is a good world for first-time adventurers.
    Hint - to win the game, you must save the alien by getting
    him to a source of radiation - either the Van de Graff
    generator in the Nuclear Research Center, or the Slowpoke
    reactor under the Dentistry building.

ADV - This is no relation to the original Adventure. it is
    another world of the same order of difficulty as DEMO, and
    was written by Blaine Manyluk. To run it, type '$SO
    CC12:ADV'.

ATLANTIS - This adventure has also been used for the UACS Open
    House. It was written, and is currently maintained by James
    Walsh. ATLANTIS is a fairly short adventure of the more
    traditional treasure gathering variety. ATLANTIS can be
    accessed via '$SO SHOW:ATLANTIS'.

SPY - This adventure, created by Trevor Hart and Brian Minchau,
    is also incomplete. Chris Thierman currently has it on the
    system, but hasn't done anything with it for a while. Perhaps
    a few prods (messages) would help. The game puts the player
    in a 'Mission Impossible' type situation, complete with
    hidden tape recorder of instructions. Several unusual
    inhabitants, plus some realism features not often found in
    adventures, make this one worthwhile.

ALIEN - This is yet another incomplete adventure, programmed by
    Chris Thierman. It has a science fiction setting, complete
    with wierd machines, etc. ALIEN is not currently available on
    the system.

Examples for prospective world creators

     To give you a starting point, some examples of the sources
to SIX/FANT worlds are available. SHOW:EX.6 is the source to an
EXTREMELY simple world. It is $COPY-able, so you can take a copy
and build upon it. SHOW:DEMO.S is the source to a somewhat more
complicated world (probably the simplest one worth actually
playing) and is also $COPY-able. SHOW:ZORP.S is the source to
ZORP, mentioned above. It is NOT $COPY-able, however it has been
permitted to SHOW:EXAMINE (see SHOW:EXAMINE.W for details on
this utility) and you are free to look at it.

Tools for Use With SIX/FANT

     Since SIX is actually a fairly general structured
programming language, tools useful with such languages are
useful with SIX. In particular SHOW:BEAUTIFY, which structures
ALGOLW, Pascal, and QC programs, will also work with SIX worlds.
Simply specify PAR=SIX to tell it which set of keywords to use.
