This is a stand-alone version of ADVENTURE4 (the complete 660 pt Glaxo
version 4.3, 26th Jul 1984).  It consists of:

1) The A-code executive (source, CPL build-file and seg run-file)
2) The four Adventure pseudo-binary files (the database) to be run  by
   the executive (ADVINIT1.dat to ADVINIT4.dat)
3) Adventure manual  (ADVENTURE.runi) to be issued to  players  asking
   for it.

The A-code source and compiler will only be released to those who  can
demonstrate their mastery of this version of Adventure.

Adventure4 is (almost) a proper superset of  Adventures  1,  2  and  3
(known  as Adventure 550).  Adventure2 had removed food from the well-
house,  Adventure4  also  removes  the  bottle.  In all other respects
this  version  is  believed  to  be  fully  compatible with Adventure1
(except  for  having  a  richer set of responses and comebacks and for
closing  some  of  the  more  blatant  loopholes).    In  merging  the
divergent   supersets   2   and  3,  priority  was  largely  given  to
Adventure2.

To  play  Adventure4  type  SEG  EXECUTIVE.  Games   are   dumped   as
'A_usname_gamname'  where  usname  is  the  login  name  of the player
truncated  to  six  characters  and  gamname  is  the  name the player
supplied to Adventure.

If Adventure4 is to be released  to  general  public,  copy  the  four
ADVINIT   files   to  GAMES.  Also  copy  EXECUTIVE.seg  to  GAMES  as
ADVENTURE.seg  (or  any  other obvious name not clashing with existing
versions).  It  is inadvisable to release the source of the executive.


Some customisation of the interface with the operating system  may  be
required  to  define  prime  hours  (within  which only demo games are
permitted)  and/or to modify the mechanism for saving/restoring games.
To  achieve  this  the  EXECUTIV  module  of  EXECUTIVE.f77  should be
(carefully!) modified.

Good luck!
                                           M.L.Arnautov.

P.S. Here is the list of user-visible A-code modifications made  since
the first (undated) public release:

14 Oct 83
1) The WEAR verb introduced.
2) The REMOVE verb (opposite to WEAR) introduced.
3) The SCRY (or GAZE) verb introduced.
4) EXAMINE ORB made equivalent to SCRY.
5) Few textual changes made to improve clarity and consistency.

25 Oct 83
1) The owl logic heavily modified. This involved altering somewhat the
   order of PLACE declarations. Warning: earlier saved games may get a
   bit strange as a result.
2) DRINK OIL (yuk!) coded for.
3) Orb vision logic re-done.
4) Modified DRINK logic.

19 Dec 83
1) Expanded the WEAR logic.
2) Modified the RING effect logic.
3) Can now open and close the cage (does nothing but says OK)
4) Few minor textual changes.

23 Mar 84
1) Snake made sleepy in demo games.
2) The USE verb coded for (just a quip).
3) The shadowy figure deviousness (omitted by mistake)
   reinstated in its full glory and various related quips added.
4) The stalactite entrance into maze made predictable on JUMP
   (as in Adventure2).
5) Few minor textual changes.

15 May 84
1) Orb vision logic modified.

19 Jun 84
1) The TRANSLATE verb coded for.
2) On sniffing vial vapours dwarves now stagger out BEFORE
   the object dropped (if any) is described.
3) Examine verb domain slightly enlarged.
4) Like other magic words, FEE, FIE etc now work when said.
5) Attempts to open the rusty door now result in a clearer response.
6) Some textual changes.

27 Jun 84
1) Vanilla flavoured help text re-written.
2) The EMPTY verb coded for.
3) Lava gorge made hintable.
4) Orc mutter referring to the orb added.
5) Lamp life extended.
6) Yet more minor textual changes.

19 Jul 84
1) A messed up FEE, FIE... sequence commented upon (as Adventure1).
2) The hungry giant message re-activated (omitted by mistake).
3) Textual changes here and there.

26 Jul 84
1) Bug fix: oiling the plant now epmties the bottle.
2) Bug fix: the response to OPEN DOOR now depends on the state
   of the door.
